Transcript: ACILecture1.mp4
============================================================

I have started the recording. I also started sharing the screen. We'll give it a couple of minutes and then we'll get started. So the semester started yesterday I suppose, right? You had a bunch of classes yesterday and you have a couple of them today. Okay, okay, perfect. Okay, it's 820. Let's give it maybe two minutes and then we'll start. We can just give a quick reaction if you are able to see the screen as well. I'll just share the screen. Okay, perfect. Okay, I think it's time for us to be started. The others could catch up with the recordings or they might be in the other sessions. So welcome to artificial and computational intelligence. The course code is ZG557 and I'm part of I'll be your instructor and I'm a Bitsian fanboy. So if you have also you know, did you heard about me or attended the orientation session? So my association with Bits is a long journey. So I've played a lot of roles at Bits, right? From being a student, being a, you know, teaching assistant, learning facilitator, instructor, IC and also did my doctoral studies with the Goa campus and so all of these roles, right? And Wilp particularly, right? So it really interests me. I've been teaching at Wilp for around maybe a decade now, right? That's pretty much about me. So we will, you know, across the course get to know about each other. At least a lot of you might get to know about me and I'll try to get to know about most of you through our interactions. And my area of work is on computing education, assistive technologies, AI for people with disabilities and the intersection of all of this. So that also we will talk whenever we get a chance. So that means that let's get started with the first contact session, which is we'll get an introduction to what is this course about, which is AI, MLZG557. And we'll get to explore the first module of introduction to this course. Right? So firstly, this will be there in all of the decks, a quick disclaimer and acknowledgement that most of these slide contents are curated, right? And it is not created by me or maybe the faculty team. So we are in the shoulders of Star Wars in the field, right? So we acknowledge the contributors and a lot of professors across the globe, they have made their material open source and that also helps in, you know, curating these. And of course, it's been modified and a little bit of content has been added, removed and so on to suit the dynamics of this, you know, group of students and the delivery mood. And also all of these materials that are used in the class, they are not full fleshed, which means they're not exhaustive in nature. So I'll request you to go through the textbook, right? We'll talk about all of that in detail, don't worry about that. And there will also be some materials shared over Taksilla. And that's the basic premise, right? So that being said, the agenda for today, right, we'll get started with the course and we'll have a look at the course handout. And this course has undergone a lot of changes over the past five, six years. And this year is again, a good, let's say, 30, 40 percent has been changed, right? So we'll talk about all that. We look at books and evaluation components. We'll also have a look at how to make the most out of this course, right? And we'll quickly grab a snapshot of the history of AI. And we'll talk about the foundations, applications, risks of AI. And there are different perspectives of AI. We usually put it in a two cross two matrix. We'll discuss, we'll debate about that. We'll talk about which one do you align most, all of that? And then we will simply get started with something called as P.A. specification, right? So that's what we're going to do. So first things first, let me also go ahead and show the course handout, right? So by now, since you're already into the bit system, you might have heard about the course handout. The course handout is really important, right? So the course handout is our Bible, right? So we will actually be adhering to the course handout. And there may be slight variations, but we will catch up. Let's say, suppose we are slightly overboard for maybe the third, second or third lecture. We might catch it up in the fourth lecture and so on, right? So first things first, this is a five credit course, which means it's really important, right? It's a higher credit value course, right? And as it all this course has been updated, just a month back or so, we had some, you know, revisions to this course. We'll come back to this course objectives and learning objectives and so on in a few minutes. But fundamentally, this is a core course, right? Which means at the end of this course, you should have a very good understanding about the history and the concepts behind AI, right? So what is a knowledge system? How does an AI agent infer things? How does probability play a role here? And how do these models optimize for both computation and, you know, results? So we'll talk about all of that, right? And the learning objectives are several. You can have a look at that later. But in a bird's eye view, this course has nine modules and it's been split into, you know, 16 lectures, right? And it also has a couple of research papers that's already there in the course handout. Don't worry about that now. When we do that particular session, we will talk about that paper, right? So the whole handout is available and it is also published in your Excel app. So apart from this regular lectures, you will have four webinars. You will have some lab work and you'll also have your assignments in quizzes, right? So these are the lab work and we'll talk about all of that in a minute. But before that, this is your course page, right? So how many if you have at least come once here? Yeah. These are course page and you should be able to see all the details in this page, right? And I had also posted a couple of announcements yesterday. And at least for this course, we will diligently follow this book, right? So after every class within five minutes of the end of the class, you will have the class materials here for all the announcements, quizzes, assignments, everything will happen in this portal, right? So there is absolutely no need to go and look at several, you know, portals and other places and you know, back and forth emails and all of that. It's my commitment that after every session, 10, 20 or class ends by 10, 30, you will have the materials, right? All of them will be available, right? After 10 minutes and not before. I'll also give the rational why. So Harman Prithasur can we upload the PPTs before lectures? So there is that's a double H SWAT and with my experience, it does more harm than good. But my promise is 10, 20 or sessions and by 10, 30, the deck will be there in this portal. Where will that be there? You can just go to the core space and you will come here and see there is something called as files, right? Inside the files currently, you only see the handout, but over here, you will find all the materials right after the session. But that being said, there are few classes where you need to have some pre reads, right? For example, right after our mid-sem, we will do something called as logics. In those places, we need a pre-read and in those cases, we'll be uploading those materials in advance. When we do that, we will also be posting an announcement that there is some pre-read, you'll have to prepare for the class and have a read of these materials. Does that answer? Mohan? For other classes, you can just have a curious mind and attend the class. There are no much pre-reads for the class, right? The learning will happen in the class and you will have a lot of discussions and debates after the class for the rest of the week. But for those sessions where there are pre reads, when you have to be prepared for the class, we'll be posting that here. We'll also post an announcement that this is coming your way, so go ahead and do that. Cool. So this is our learning management system. Everything will happen here. Only the classes and recording will happen in our teams, right? So that being said, let's proceed ahead and I also told about some lab components here, right? So these labs are all self-help experiments and you can go ahead and use this in our virtual platform. I'll be posting an announcement soon. Yeah, you can have a look at that. All of these are already implemented and posted in that lab platform, right? So all you have to do is play around with it, right? Maybe run some of those algorithms, tweak some of them and run it and so on. So we will not have any guided lab sessions for this course. We'll only have some VPNRs where we will discuss some of those topics, maybe run some of those programs, but we'll not have like a campus lab session where maybe for two hours, you play around with these lab manuals. The whole lab manual, the recordings, everything is already up there. You can go ahead and practice them. Of course, not today. This is the first class. We move towards the course. We will also have a look at that. I'll also show you in one of the sessions how to access that portal. It's a pretty straightforward portal. Just go into it. You'll be able to see for each of that lab, a lab manual recording and the code of it and all that, right? So that being said, we will go back to our slide deck. So these are course handouts. We already had a look at it. I also told that the course handout is already available in the taxilab portal. What about the textbooks? Right? So yeah, we will come there. Pratik, yeah, we'll come to that with there's a tech for all that. The textbook for this course is Artificial Intelligence, a modern approach, fourth edition. So it is by Russell and Norwick. And trust me, this is a classic. This book has been the leader in the space of AI in terms of academic book for over 20 years now, right? There have been four editions. The fourth edition is the latest and the left one that you see is the, you know, Eastern economy edition or the Indian edition and the right one is the global edition. Both of them are the same. I would recommend you get the fourth edition if you plan to get it because there is a good 20, 25% change between the third edition and the fourth edition. And in this course, at least in this offering, right? There are few topics which are there only in the fourth edition and not in the previous editions, right? And the fourth edition itself is quite old. Maybe it's been there for like four years now. So you can grab one of them and the Indian edition is not very costly. Maybe like I don't find a rupees or so. Right? And of course, there are also digital copies of it available, maybe in Pearson website and other places, but I would recommend to get a physical copy because it might help you in the open book exams. Ebooks are always available. You can use them. But the cons of using that is you cannot bring a digital device or a ebook for your open book exam. So it's good that you know, I grab a copy of this and it's a good book to have, right? And the outset, let me also tell you, this is a really huge book. Yeah, maybe some thousand finite pages or so. And not every chapter of this book is in this course, right? And that is what the mapping is about. If you go to our course handout for all the modules, you will see that this is the textbook. T1 stands for our textbook. And these are the sections of that chapter which is covered in this course, right? Of course, you're free to learn the whole book. But maybe a good 50, 60% of that book is what is this course, right? Not everything of that book. And some parts of this book, you will also learn in other courses, right? And there are some reference books, right? So machine learning and artificial intelligence approach by, you know, Mitchell and others. He's also your machine learning textbook, you know, author. And then into AI and expert systems by Patterson. And then artificial intelligence by rich and group, right? So these are your reference books. But primarily we will use your textbook. And for some concepts, which are not available in these materials, as I told, I'll be posting you in advance. And there are some reference papers, which are also linked to your course handout. So far so good. Are we all clear on this is a five credit course? The course handout we discussed, we also discussed about your books. And the most important one among all of this, if you ask me one pick, what would that be? That will be your textbook, right? What about the evaluation components, right? As usual, we have EC one, EC two and EC three. EC one is for continuous assessment for 30 marks. We'll have two assignments, one before mid-sem for 12 marks, one after mid-sem for 13 marks. Both of them will be in group, right? It'll be in a group of five, right? And there will be a window when you can choose your group and all of that. And if you don't choose your own group, you will then be put randomly in the group of five. All that will happen, watch out for announcements. Quises, there'll be two quizzes. And the best of the two quizzes will be chosen. Again, remember, this is particular for this course. This might not be the case for all the courses, but for this course, we'll have the best of the two quizzes. Again, watch out for announcements. And from this time, the quizzes will be open for slightly longer duration, right? So usually you may be have it open for one day, you might miss it, and then you know, there's a lot of kiosks around it. So maybe the quizzes will be for a slightly longer duration, maybe for four days and so on, right? Four or three days. And the minimum size and the maximum size for announcements is four people or five people. I'll come back to that, right? I'll be announcing about that, but don't worry about that, right? But it'll not be more than five, and it doesn't make sense to have three people, two people, and so on. Because at the outset, let me tell you that I love assignments. Yeah. So, assignments would be more situated, right? It would be more, let's say, experiential. It's not a trivial, you know, go write a program, go simulate something, and so on, because this is a work integrated program, right? So we should be some work integrated component in it, right? So we'll design it in that way, where only when a group of people come, it makes justice, right? We'll write a book that. Anand has a question, so we got an experience of open-go-exam last time, book was not helping. We didn't have much time. We'll talk about that. Yeah, we'll have short breaks in every class, and I'll talk about how you could make the best of it, right? Mid-sub-exam is a close book exam covering the first eight contact session topics for 30 marks. And the final exam, open book exam covering all the topics for 40 marks, right? And as I mentioned, I have a person who'd constantly be communicating. So watch out on your announcement section. I hope you have already linked it, so it's by default, so you'll also be getting emails. So do have a look at your emails whenever such announcements happen, right? And within the next week, before the next week when we meet, I'll again be making an announcement with all of these dates, right? So with work integrated learning, the biggest challenge that you might be facing is on timelines, right? When do I have which course exam, when is the deadlines, and so on? So as a best practice, I would be posting all these dates, and 99% those dates will be the ones that we will follow. There will no not be any changes, right? So if I were you, what I would do, I will go ahead and bookmark those dates in my calendar so that I don't miss it on, you know, those deadlines. So you can also try to do that. And then there are a couple of questions. Let me take that. So what if we want to do as an adult? That's not possible, right? So we just don't want to do that. I will also give the reason why, because these assignments are not to be done alone, at least at the bandwidth, right? If you do it alone, it will take a good month or so for you to do it alone, right? So it is intellectually stimulating, challenging, and it has to be done in a group. And there is also this bigger rational that we are not running a company alone, right? So even at all our workplaces, we are doing things in a group, and it also facilitates peer learning. So just ensure that, you know, we don't want to do that alone. Yes, I do understand your point that, okay, there might be, you know, sleeping partners in the group, they're not contributing and so on. And we do have ways to manage that, right? In the announcement of your assignment itself, all that will be clear. And we will, you know, ensure that the people who have not contributed do not get the same credit as others, right? So we will have a window where you can choose your own groups. And if you miss that window, if you have not chosen your groups, then those people will be randomly allocated, right? Our own notes will be allowed in open-book exam. No, it'll not be allowed. You can only take the textbook, textbooks for that matter. You can take any of the, you know, textbooks. And you can also take the materials that we use in the class. I had also posted an announcement yesterday that after every class, I will be uploading these materials. Don't immediately take a printout of this, right? Don't do that. Why? Because the materials that we use in the class are not watermarked, right? You can just use it to, you know, learn. But before your final exams, maybe after the 14th or 15th session, we will be uploading a watermark version of these decks, right? A one-shot PDF. I'll do that maybe at the 15th class, right? You can take a printout of that one and bring it to the exam, right? Along with your books or whatever, right? Handwritten notes are not allowed, at least as per the last policy, right? So you will be getting communication from the EVM, or the examination cell if at all they are changes, right? So it's an open book exam, right? You cannot claim that it's an open notes exam and I'll write my own materials and comments on, right? So can you repeat what you said about the groups? Yeah, so again, one last time. So groups for us, enements can be self-created. There will be an announcement on that. There will be a window for that. You can actually choose your own group members, the four or five members. But if you miss on that deadline, right? Let's say there will be a bunch of 100-200 people who have not been a part of any group. They have not chosen it. Then they will be randomly put into other groups, or there will be groups created among them. But you will get a chance to create your own, you know, as enement groups, right? So there's a question, can you choose and form your group, if not, and yes, that will be the first priority. Now that you're not in your first semester, you're in a second semester, I assume you know at least 25 other people in the program, right? Do you know that everyone in the group, like, can you just give a reaction, thumbs up? If you know at least 20 other people from your batch, that's important, yeah. So if you're just in silos, then there's no point, then, you know, just doing a no remote program, right? There's no peer learning then. So try to do that. And that'll be the first priority. If you don't choose your groups, if you miss dot on that, then we will randomly, you know, look at it. Cool, let's go to some ground rules. First things was try to be regular, right? Yes, I understand bits, philosophy, zero percent attendance and all that. But in will particularly, a lot of learning happens in the class. There are a lot of interactions that happen, at least for these courses, right? In my classes, I would assure you, I'll keep asking questions. And a good amount of learning will happen in the class. If you're not regular, what happens is all these get spiled up and a lot of responsibility comes to be our side later during the exams. Now groups will be across the whole batch, yeah. Second thing is be mentally present. You have the luxury to be at your own places and attend this class, which is a big relief. I remember before the pandemic, we used to have these will classes even in physical mode, right? And there used to be all sorts of complaints, right? That I was stuck in traffic, I've conglated, the AC is not working and what not, right? The class is not comfortable. I'm not audible. There are like 200 people in the class, all of that. But now you have all the luxury to be at your home, at your workplace, maybe you're, you know, maybe like this. You know, lying around and attending the lecture, it doesn't matter, right? As long as you're mentally present, you're observing, you're listening, you're responding to queries, you know, make the best out of those, you know, weekend sessions. And if you don't attend a class, go ahead and watch the recordings, right? So these classes are very tightly knit, right? The 16 sessions, if you see the course hand out, they are very closely knit. So it's important that you be in touch with the course and not just, you know, go and watch the whole recordings one or two days before the exam. So I'll keep asking questions and they'll also be dedicated, you know, small breaks that I'll give where we can chat about things, right? Use the discussion forum in Tuxela effectively, right? Very important, right? I'm a firm believer of, you know, peer learning. So use those discussion forums. It is open to across the batch. And for this course, all of this will happen across the batch. Yeah, Herman Prithan others, assignments and all of these type of discussions, your exams, all of these are common. It's the same question paper, same assignments. Of course, there's not one single assignment. There'll be like a bunch of problem statements and you would get to work on one of them. But what I mean is all of these are not section specific, right? It's the complete batch. You're around 1200 and all of this is common. Discussion also is similar. It's not that only our section is having some discussion. It's the whole group. What I would also do is I'll try to, you know, have some thought experiments. We'll come to that slide later. But the point I'm trying to make is try to have a lot more discussions outside our class as well, right? Sol exercises regularly, right? So as I habit, a lot of our, you know, slides, not today, the first slide. I mean, the first class, I'll leave you free for the day. But in a lot of other, you know, slide digs from the second, third session on words, there will be some small questions in the deck, right? So one or two questions and they are not graded, right? They are not for anyone. It's just for yourself. You don't need to submit them, right? You don't need to actually, you know, go about verifying and all that. But try to solve them and have a chat around it in the discussion forum, right? It is not an assignment. It is not, you know, a project or anything. They're just small questions related to that day's class. That's it. And I promise you these exercises are not worth more than 15, 20 minutes, right? They just one or two in the last slide. And, you know, it'll help you. Finally, go on extra mile, right? I've been talking about that. So one to the power 365 is one, but 1.01 to the power 365 is 37.8, right? So this small delta of 0.1, right? You see the difference. And that's what I want you to. Okay, you might have this whole query that, okay, I'm attending. I'm upskilling. I'm attending a Mtech program from birth and I'm already doing good, right? But let me just tell you that you are not alone. There are more than a lack people who are doing such programs across the country, across the globe. So you might as well go the extra mile, right? My only advice is, choose, just don't live in the course that, you know, I'll just be persistent. I'll just attend some exams, be a part of some groups and just sail the course and get a degree, right? That doesn't really serve the purpose. So go the extra mile, have queries, make friends, make connections, learn from each other, and that small extra effort will take you a long way. And there are not just one or two, but hundreds of examples I can give you from your senior batches who have gone that extra mile and doing extraordinary things now, right? So that will be my only piece of advice that just don't sail through a program, make the best out of it. It is a perfectly valid and valuable degree. It is the same thing as the on-campus. It's the same course and out, same deliverables, same number of assignments, same things, it is perfectly valid and there is nothing as will and all of that return, that also comes with the cost that it is of the same rigor, right? So make the best out of it. So that being said, I had also posted some other announcements, so be mindful of that, you can have a look at that, but apart from that, I will stop the Gyan and we will go into the course. Anything at this point, anything about the course and so on? I hope you are motivated enough to learn the course. I don't say any questions, so let's get started. So some pretty request for this course. So Mohan might be like, I just asked him about deck, he told me, there's no pretty request, he's not what is this. So there are some class requirements. So this course uses a variety of skills and it will be good if you have some background with let's say probability and statistics, a little bit of Boolean logic and some algorithms and some coding skills, but if you don't have them, you'll also pick it along the course. Some official pre-equestive are data structures, mainly because in your assignments and so on, you would be needing some of these data structures. And as usual, the unofficial prerequisite is the willingness to learn, whatever the background that you are missing. That is why I again repeated that in your assignments and so on, it's good to do it in a group because not everyone might have a very strong computer science or AI background. So it's always fine to pick up those skills on your way when you solve exercises as assignments and so on. And of course in the class as well, we'll try to turn it down to as easy as possible, but keep the same rigor. For data structures, a good resource to brush up is your typical data structures textbook. I can also put that or even my deck is available and I can just post it. I used to teach that for a good 10, 15 semesters and you can just have a glance of that deck. Cool. That being said, otherwise the book name is I think good vision, Thomas here, that's the algorithms book, you can have a look at that. Cool. That being said, what this course focus is about. This course is a core fundamental course on AI. It introduces you to the breadth of AI. And the principles of AI, which means we will learn about what are some concepts and principles how AI agents work. What is the rationale behind them? What is knowledge representation? How do they infer knowledge? What is probability coming in? All of those intricacies of AI. That is what this course is about. We cover topics like uninformed, informed searches, optimizations, knowledge representations, reasoning, a bit of ethics and all of that. And of course the whole course handout, you can have a look at that. Right. So there are some questions there. Do we need to have the same group for? Yeah, you will have the same group. Krishna. Yeah. How to maintain this energy till the last? I think you should just stick on with them. Yeah. So I will bring the energy and if you just stick on, that should be good enough. Yes, I will share the data structure as notes, not a problem. Yeah, it's already floating on the internet. It's all open source, so you can have a look at that. But I have a merged version of all the 16 sessions. You can, I'll upload that and you can have a look. Yeah. What is this course not about? Very important. We will not touch about any hardware aspects of AI design. Right. And that's a completely different field. And we will not be talking about that. And of course, not even the program of mtech is, you know, having this. Will we have a separate doubt session? Not really. We will not have any separate sessions, but you have your webinars. And at least for ACI, I will also attend the webinar. Right. I'm particular about it. So if there are any queries, we can also, you know, talk about those webinars are typically taken by learning facilitators, but I will also, you know, we are attending and we will take some of these doubt clearing sessions in those webinars. Yeah. And apart from that, as I told the discussion forum, right, please use the discussion forum because that's going to be persisted. Right. So if you put a query there, you will be getting an system learning facilitators other peers and, you know, professors. And that remains there till the end of the semester. And others also benefit from that. So, you know, keep using that facility. Right. Formal introduction to ML, neural networks and so on will not be covered in this course because this is a course on computational intelligence and so on. And of course, you do have all of these courses in parallel or you might have completed already or you might be learning in future the next semester. So we'll not be covering those. And of course, deep dive into like specific fields of AI, like let's say computer vision or LLMs and things like that. And again, that's not the scope of this course. While we will be talking about rational and various types of agents in this course, we'll right away start. Today also we'll be discussing next class also. We are not going to talk about agent TKI. Right. So by agent TKI, I mean, MCP protocol, agent to agent protocols, how do LLMs go? What is tool calling and all that? That's a very surface level on top, you know, using some of these frameworks and, you know, doing things. But this course is more about the intricacies of AI. Right. But of course, these concepts you will learn in another course called AC for ML, I believe. I think you have a course in the semester. You will touch upon some of these there because this is more of a software engineering layer of AI. But this course is about a more in-depth layer of how things work and how do you represent and so on. Right. Ravindra had a question. So in today's world, there's a much I upon wipe coding. How do you think it will impact positively or negatively? Yeah, we will come there. Yeah, it's all a lot of market-driven thing. And there is a good deck about, you know, space for talking about these. But let me outside answer this that wipe coding is bad. AI assisted engineering is good. Yeah, I'll clarify what I mean by this. Sometime later in today's class. Right. What is the pedagogy or androgy of this course? Right. So pedagogy is a very loosely used term. People keep using that. But pedagogy technically is to teach children. Right. Androgyes for adults. And since this program, all of us are adults. So what is the pattern that you will follow? Every week we will have an online life class. And 99% I will not reshuffle classes. Right. But at times there may be cases where there are some conferences and I cannot do it. And so on. In some of those rare cases, you will use the buffer session. Right. We will have four webinars. And we will also have some. Let's say lab implementation or some problems solving there. And as I told, there are some lab modules already pre-created. Right. Which means that already the whole code, the recording, all of that is there. You can just go tweak it. There are also some questions there that, you know. We this part of the code and try to see the output and things like that. So you can always go ahead and explore that. We don't have a separate session for lab and all that. And as I told, learning is a social activity. So try to use as much as possible the description forum. And having there are others, we're also asking that there's a lot of things going around in this field. So what I'll also ask the learning facilitators to do is I'll try to maybe you know start and provoke some discussions in the discussion forum. They more like think topics. Right. So we will start a thread and we will be in it for that week. And what you can do is you can go try to give your thoughts, comment about other thoughts and so on. I mean, this is not directly related to your exam. Right. So just park all of your exam, easy one and score and grades for later. That's a byproduct of learning. Right. That's not the only way to you know, assess and there is several research that proves that that is not even correlated to learning. Right. But that's a standard measure. So let's go with that. But all I'm trying to tell you is don't get too much into that part. And we will have these think topic discussions in the discussion forum. And I hope you find that useful. Right. They might not be fully into the course handout, but they are related to our course handout that these discussions will happen. And we will also do some engagement calculation in that. And we will use the top came members of that who have engaged a lot in that. And you might get some surprise like some AI comic books, AI books, or to work with us on some, these opportunities on some research. Or maybe watch some AI sci-fi movie with us. Yeah. That's on me. So that's pretty much about this course, how it is going to operate and all of that. We are not going to spend a lot of this in later classes since it's the first class. I'm setting the context of how it is going to be. Right. Yeah, class ratio deal and all that is from the ops team. So I don't have any say on that. So that's really not possible. But are we all clear on what this course is where we are heading? How we are going to do the books, the discussions and all of this? Yes, no, maybe. So for all these yes, no, maybe I'll keep asking. So you can just react because there's a lot of students. So I might not be able to look at the whole chat. We can just quickly give a reaction. Okay. Okay. Cool, that being said, let's get started. Right. We'll start with the history of AI. Right. So first things first AI is not new. Right. AI has been there. AI has been there. And it's gone through a lot. Right. But it has really boomed in the last half a decade or so. Right. So first things first, if you see the last 100 year history or so. You had computers, you had your digital logic, flip flops, all of that coming. And in 1950, Alan Turing, have you already heard about this Alan Turing, the Turing test and so on? Oh, yeah, that's my profile, but it's not fully updated. Don't worry about it. You know that. So I didn't bother to update it. So yeah, Alan Turing actually, you know, started this question in 1950. Yeah, all of you, all of you come back here. Yeah. It's a very important question that he asked that can machines think. Right. What he asked can machines think. And then he also proposed this definition that a computer would deserve. Right. Use that terminology. Right. A computer would deserve to be called intelligent. If it could deceive a human into believing it was human. Right. So he put out this in the wide. He proposed this can machines think. And for a good five, six years, this whole question started, you know, the hot topic. And people started, you know, going towards can machines think. Right. And there was the definitions around intelligence. And you know, what is AI then? What happens if machines start thinking and all of these interesting directions? Right. Mind that this is 1950s. In 1950s, computers themselves are not very prevalent. Right. Only in large laboratories and government owned computers are there. It's not that everyone is owning, you know, computing devices and so on. But already at this point, you see the vision, right. Allenturing and so on. At that point, it's self started posing this question that can machines think. And then slowly this, you know, debate started going on. And in 1956, right. And till 1956, this term AI was not born. Right. It was just, you know, around can computers think, can computers act? And, you know, can they be as good as humans? These type of discussions were going on. But in 1956, something remarkable happened. Right. What happened is there are these four scientists, right. John McAtee, Maawin Minsky, Alan and Simon. What these people told is it's high time we all meet. And we want to discuss about AI. They coined this term AI, which is artificial intelligence. And they told let's all meet during summer. Right. So have you heard about summer schools? They're getting popular even in India now. So in summer, there'll be summer schools conducted in some universities. And, you know, professors, interested students and they all come together. And they discuss about one particular sub field of computation. It could be like this, read math, AI, architectures or anything. Right. So these are called summer schools. And these four scientists, right. Who are they? John McAtee, Maawin Minsky, Alan and Simon. These people told let's meet in dark mode college. Right. So they told let's meet. Let's meet for two months. Right. So there's also an official, you know, that proposal available for you on the internet. If you're interested, you can have a look at this. And mind the date here. Right. 1955. Right. So there was this proposal. The proposal was to get the funding. Right. So we'll all be meeting for two months. We need the accommodation, food and all the, you know, campus resources and we'll all meet. And we will discuss about certain topics like these. Automatic computers. How can a computer be programmed to use a language? Neurons and you know, theory of calculation, self improvement, abstractions, and all of these. And you know, there's salaries and all of these. Right. So it's an interesting proposal that you can have a look if you're interested. But this is what they did. Right. So this directly doesn't have the other folks like, you know, Allen and Simons need, but they also contributed. Right. So it was a proposal meet that, let's all meet in the summer and let's, you know, chitchat about what this field is and how it could move forward. Interesting, right. That's when formerly the word was coined. Right. And there was a bunch of work done and this proposal, it talks about those. And slowly the field started getting its attention that it had to. The first perceptron was built. The first AI program was built. And you know, Elisa, Elisa is a chatbot, which was able to talk. Right. So you give some, you know, question to it and it'll be able to respond. And people went crazy. Wow. This is, you know, machine is thinking. It's able to answer to me. And you know, the field is changing and all of that. Right. And there were a lot of proposals or projects around AI. Right. So for the defense and, you know, all of these research projects that academicians keep doing, it had some AI flavor to it. Right. After this, Elisa success. These Elisa is actually still alive. Yeah. So there's a massive conference called Triple AI. That's an AI conference which thousands of people attend. And in one of the years, I think 2023 or 24, this Elisa was just, you know, again revived. It was kept in a box for the next generation to come and, you know, have a look at it. Right. So from 1973 to 1980, right. AI went through its first bad winter. What do you mean by that? The bad times started. Right. The bad times of AI started. What happened is after 1965, Elisa success and all that, a lot of proposals had AI in them. And it got the funding also. But what happened as usual, the project managers, if you are in house, what might have happened? Yeah. These projects started failing, right. So it started heavily failing. You give something in natural language. The, you know, AI is responding something and it was really not up to the mark. And everyone started believing that AI is a bad word. These AI folks are heavily fooling people. They are hard coding some rules and just claiming that this is intelligence. And all of these bots or AI related projects that we have started are not heading anywhere. Project failures started to happen. Right. That was the first bad phase of AI. Right. And then in 1980, again slowly started to pick up. Right. So there were things like convolutional networks, parallel processing and, you know, small bots were, you know, coming up and they were slightly giving more hope. Right. And again from 1980 to 1987, there was some stable, you know, stability. Again, people started to attend these AI conferences. The one that I was mentioning, right, triple AI and so on. So it was as at its peak, it went down. Again, it started to, you know, come up and so on. And in between, something very interesting also started to happen. People started to disassociate themselves with the name AI and they went into specifics. Right. There were also some chat going on. Oh, yeah. So these are all discussions that you can have in the general discussion forum. So, Bridgishan others, there's a general discussion forum where you can, you know, it's not the question and so forth. Question and so forth is more related to the course. In general discussion, you can talk about all these, you know, groups, numbers and so on. So that that discussion also is persisted there. Because in teams, it might just be lost. Yeah, so you can have all that there. There are two hours when we are here. We'll, you know, make the best out of this. And anyway, I'm just doing some storytelling, right. So yeah, what happened in 1980 to 87 is people started telling, I am doing ML. I'm not doing AI. I am doing deep learning. I am not doing AI. Because the whole terminology of AI started becoming like a bad word that these are highly ambitious people. They keep coming up with proposals, but nothing works. So slowly they started disassociating themselves with these type of, you know, terminologies. If from 1987, again, the second bad winter of AI started. Meaning nothing really works. You keep proposing about back, back propagation and parallel processing and all that. But the projects were ending up in failures, right. And remember that people were also doing their PhDs and all of their core research work in the field of AI even during these times. Right. For example, we have Professor Ashwin from Bits Goa. He did his PhD in the 1980s in the field of AI, symbolic AI, you know, logics and so on. And, you know, you know, the story is that, right. So nobody really cares about your field, right. When you go to such conferences, everyone is like, oh yeah, you will, you will propose things, but it's not going to work, right. That's what your field is heading. And that's what happened in early 90s. But then again, the field gained popularity. There was something called the RoboCup. And even knows about the RoboCup, it sports for robots, right. You have, you know, football and, you know, things like that coming up for robots. And again, robots are, you know, having a bunch of other AI-powered features. And AI is an umbrella term, right. It has a lot of other, you know, components within. And these type of games started, you know, becoming popular. RoboCup started every year. They'll be a RoboCup. And, you know, you had LSTM, ANNs, getting popular. And it's going on slightly. It was stabilizing. People were again gaining some confidence about AI. And in 1997, something remarkable again happened. That is nothing but deep blue. IBM developed this, you know, intelligent system or an expert system, which was trained or which was specialized in playing chess. And it defeated Gary Casparo in chess, right. And after that, Gary Casparo actually mentioned in the interview that I could feel human level intelligence in the room, right. Again, it kept the media's attention. Everybody started, wow, is the first time that some machine is able to know, defeat someone in chess. And it's not someone in chess, but it was the world champion, Gary Casparo himself. So again, the field gained momentum. People started believing in the field of AI. And if you also are interested, go deep into what happened here. A lot of people believed that deep blue made a very stupid move. They told this, this, this any human could figure out. And this is, this is a bad move. But it was that bad move which eventually led deep blue to win the game. You get what I mean? It seemed not so intelligent. And it seemed that this is a very trivial move for a machine to make. But at retrospection, when people later realized what happened, it was that move that had eventually led deep blue to beat Gary Casparo. And same with AlphaGo on anything, right. So fundamentally, what happened was, again, people started getting, you know, that momentum that, okay, AI is still promising, right. And from there, the field slowly picked on from 2000 to 2012, there were a lot of small innovations that kept on happening. The DARPA challenges, which are more like, you know, robotics, robot for defense, cars, autonomous cars, and all of these, right. And then we had, you know, more interest in A&N and, you know, IBM kept on developing such systems and, you know, CRI and so on. And you also had, you know, revolutions happening in deep learning, architectures and so on. And you had your folks, your friends were talking about AlphaGo and so on. So that's again, a type of, you know, mind game like chess and so on, where, you know, it was able to defeat people, TensorFlow, deep mind, all of them started coming. And in 2017, everyone knows what happened, right. You've already gone through your first semester. Attention is all you need, right. So transformers happened. And from there, there has to be history, right. You know about what happened later, that GPD, one, two, three, birds, and then, you know, kept on coming. And 2022, we had chat GPD coming, right. It's an important milestone because, until this point, AI was more in the academic community, the research community, and you know, a couple of government institutes and so on, right. To the public, AI was very vague, right. AI was all about, okay, maybe machines do something, maybe intelligent and so on, right. But after chat GPD, you have realized that it got democratized, right. You talk about AI took its, they will name chat GPD, right. That's not the only AI tool. Of course, we all know that, but that breakthrough led AI to become mainstream. It started getting into every household, everyone talking about AI. And in the last five years, we know what's happening. Every week, there are releases, there are debates, there are new frameworks, there are tools, promising results, contradictory results, keeps going. Right. So we have come a long way. So as AI students, you should always remember that AI was there. AI has been there for the past 80, 90 years. People have been wondering, it has gone through winters and there are winters that will come in future also. Right. And I think someone had already hit the bullseye, oh, they ain't right. So we already spoke about, you know, your global warming and the sustainability aspect of it and a lot of things. And there is substantial work going around those directions also. People do believe that AI is not sustainable if we do it the same way how we are. Right. So one aspect is the tokens, the money that you spend, right. And the second aspect is the net zero. Right. Overall, there is a cost involved. Right. By cost, we don't just mean how much you are spending for an AI. Maybe you are recharging every month, you're bank tokens, you have your org, who are subscribed. I'm not talking about that. We are talking about the price that we are paying for AI. There are two things, right. The cost and the price. Cost is what we are paying out of money. Price is what the next generation is going to face. Are we depleting resources? What is the amount of energy needed to run these systems and all of those the whole ecosystem of AI? Right. So there is good amount of work people are talking about in sustainable AI and so on. Right. Cool. That's that's something to, you know, ponder about that AI has not always been successful. It has always gone through some bad faces. And now we are in a good prime face, but there might be cases again, it goes through some small winters and it will again bounce back. AI is bound to stay here. Right. So why all this happened. Right. So then that is a question that, okay, it has been slow, steady, it has gone through bad faces, good faces like every other field. But why did this, you know, last 10 years pick up. Right. So the last 10 years, as you know, your friend says, it was because of a couple of things that happened, which is three things came together. Data, computation power and algorithms. All of these three came together that because of social media and all of the tremendous amount of data started getting produced in the last one decade. Computational power also was, you know, really coming up with, you know, competing organizations and, you know, GPUs and high performance, you know, chips at the, you know, touch of a button, you have it in your phones. Right. Computational power and thirdly algorithms, of course, software engineering and, you know, discrete math, researchers kept on doing, you know, research and improving at the algorithm level, optimizations and so on. And all of these three came together and that's what changed or, you know, it fastened the innovations in the last half or one decade. Right. So there are some queries. Let me just take that. Yeah. One reason is because of the, you know, computational power, you rightly pointed that out. Harmony, please say, is cost versus price, can you say so? I just put it out like cost versus price. It's not the same terminology that's being used in literature, but it's more in the terms of sustainable AI. You can find papers in those titles. Cost versus price is the term that I used here. I'm just too simplified, but that is what the literature says that it's not just the money that you're spending, but the price that our generation might pay for user generations if we are not mindful about AI. Right. So you can search for sustainable AI and in particular about in international conference of software engineering or triple AI and so on, maybe I'll start a discussion and post some of these links and you can have a look at those. Right. So there are some, you know, I have been tagged. Cost global warming is it only the reason for the potential upcoming winters. We won't have some solutions to address. We do have. We do have, but again, we need to have a lot of fields coming together. Right. So sustainable AI is not just one group of researchers. Right. So again, there should be system engineers, problem solvers, hardware engineers, and from the software engineering community, all of them have to come together for sustainability. Right. So it's not that one person can just solve it. So it will be solved, but what I mean is even in the previous two slides, if you see winters, we're not persistent. They were on and off. Similarly, they will be on and off, but again, it will pick up. Similarly, there are new business models. Right. So with the whole advancements now, there are a lot of thoughts about API first agent first and so on. So there will be new models of pricing. Again, that might cost a temporary winter that you know what all these while I have been paying for licenses. I pay a license. I get the software. Now you're not talking about that. Now there is no SAS. You're not talking about one level beyond SAS. Right. It's not even paper use. It is paper call. You make a call to an agent. I will charge you. Right. So there is a lot of other angles to it. So there will be winters bad times in AI, but again, it will pick up because now that the community is so strong that already people are working towards it. So that will really happen. Right. Cool. That being said, the AI boner, bend debate. Right. Initially, someone had asked me this question, you know what? Why coding industry is changing? Will we all lose our jobs? And so people are taking, you know, sites. There is boom. There is been. There's a lot of work coming in all directions, right. In humanity, sociology, in AI community, everywhere people are researching and about. Is it really beneficial or is it just for, you know, let's say of the capitalistic world? Right. So there are discussions around it. I believe it to you to decide on which side you take. But my perspective on this is that AI is bound to stay. Right. AI is bound to stay. It will augment us. Right. Everybody will start using AI. Right. It is already, you know, coming into school education. Right. In K-12 AI literacy has already come in. Right. It will augment our work. But there are some statements, something like AI might increase inequality. Right. I will talk about that in a few slides on why this might happen. Right. And AI application areas are several. Right. So if you look at this whole, you know, from AI being a bad word and people not believing AI researchers in the field, now we have come a long way where AI is there in every other field. Right. From education, finance, healthcare, automobiles, robotics, smart cities, agriculture, culinary, transportation and all of these parts. Right. I'll give you a minute to think about pick a, pick a field and try to think about some AI innovations that have been happening or what you could do in that field for that field using AI. We'll take a minute and think about it. You don't need to put it in the chat. Just one, but take a minute. You don't need to necessarily take all of this. Maybe take something that your organization is doing or maybe one of this feel that aligns most to you and then think about how AM I'd be useful. Right. It is a simple thought experiment, but really helpful. We will, I'll take up some questions in the chat. There are many movies around AI ML will take over humans. Oh, yeah, I mean, that's a movie for the reason. Right. They are fiction. Definitely, it will take over some jobs. There are many good research papers around it, but it is also creating new jobs. Five years back, literally five years back, nobody used this term prompt engineering and the various techniques to do prompting and things like that. Right. But now that's also field. There are forward thinking engineers, you know, new roles also will evolve and everyone else who is in their typical roles also will be augmented with AI. These people, there are these funny terms that people make, right? Like, AI will not replace you, but people who know AI will replace you. Right. So these are the terms that people have started coming up with, but AI will augment us and it will remain and just to give an example, let's say for education. Right. Always there has been this traditional problem in education that the teacher student ratio has not been up to the mark in any part of the world. And in India, of course, you know, the stats state, right? The number of students doing computer science AI and so on are it's approximately three million. And the number of teachers is hardly like one is to 300 or 500. Right. So AI can help in very hyper personalized education. Right. It can know your skill level. It can slowly push the boundaries, give assessments and walk you along the way. So there is a good promise of such personalized education. We're not talking about ed tech tools, we just put some gamification and things like that, but there's good amount of potential in these lines. Right. Similarly, if you take anything, agriculture, for example, if you know about the news, IT roper, right. It's an attitude of eminence. And they have a complete lab setup with crores of funding on AI for agriculture. Right. Because it's geographically situated there in Punjab, there's a lot of work going around AI assisted agriculture. Right. So they're just examples, but you could go ahead and think of your own, you know, examples on each of the field. And you know the market reality. Right. So now every other part, you know AI being the buzzword. And few of you also might have taken up this program top skill yourself because AI is being pushed heavily in, you know, all walks of life, even at your places. Right. So there are these small videos or you can have a look at it later, but this is basically that RoboCup that I was mentioning earlier. Right. You can have a look at this later. It's just a one minute video, but it's just about robots playing, you know, football and things like that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You saw that right there robot actually fell down and so on and still going on. You can see a lot of YouTube videos around it like, you know, robots playing and you know things like that. But the point is we're constantly improving. Right. The field is tremendously improving and you can, you know, participate, follow some of these activities. And that being said, it's 920. It's exactly 1 hour. So we'll take a short break. We'll come back in five minutes. I'll still be around. I'll look at your charts. I'll we'll talk about that and we'll come back to the discussion in five minutes. Right. So there are some, you know, you know, everyday usage people have talking about RO is not clear. Yeah. Very good. Yeah. Very interesting point. Yeah. We really don't know. We have to build products, not VOCs. Right. So we still don't know. Really. Are we hitting the bulls eye? Are we making really loads of money by high? It's not it's it's early days. We don't know much about it. When there is potential. I feel that human intelligence should take over. Oh, we will talk about that. There's a good 20 minutes. Today we'll talk about that. All that like human intelligence. Yeah. I what is intelligence in the first place? All of that. The credit frauds. Governments won't have human oids. Okay. Which government is the question? Yeah. HEI again. Yeah. There are scope. There are. So as I told, right? So if you go to an AI conference, you would see people in AI who are really, really optimistic. Right. So one thing that you have to appreciate with this community. So there are groups of research, right? Like there's theoretical commuters and the software engineering, this computing education, this AI. And like there are subgroups, a head CI and all of that, right? Human computer interaction is what? So one common thing about this AI community is they are always very optimistic. They are like, yeah, we're going to change the field. We are going to change the world. And in the last five years or so, they're also proving that there is a lot of potential and new things. So there's only hope. Yeah. If you think about 10 years from now, which file can more improve through AI, we'll get more attention or infocus like governance education. I think there is potential for all of them. And each player in that will start dominating, right? We're the first, you know, first, more advantage. Right? So everyone in each of their own core fields have started, you know, at least exploring the potential of AI for their field. So I don't feel there's just one or two fields that will dominate, but all the fields, few organizations in that, right? We're already exploring and we're thought leaders in that would slowly and sustainably, you know, they will show remarkable results. Our source, yeah, of course, the source is there. Yeah. I was thinking of AI usage in real-time optic networks. Okay, there's a speed. We can have AI tools to determine network. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So there are already good amount of work on proactive network monitoring and things like that. So I'm not an expert in that area, but I'll post some of these conferences to follow, which is at the intersection of networking, right? Kabudai networks and, you know, so that's a good idea to be in. Like, I mean, don't go just to AI fields, but go to other fields and see papers which talk about AI. Right? For example, software engineering conference. There are a lot of papers around AI for software engineering, software engineering for AI, things like that. Go to networks. They're also talking about AI for networks. Network for AI. For AI, massive AI to work, you also need better networks. So networks for AI and AI for networks. Similarly, software architecture field, computing education field and all the other things, HCI, right? So go to those core places and look for AI papers and how is it influencing that field? Right? But definitely, there are, there are work around, you know, this networks and AI. So with respect to India, are we making AI consumers or AI engineers? So we are, you know, heavily on the consumption side. Let me be really honest, but we are making very good progress in AI engineering as well. So for example, if you have already heard about AI for Bharat and so on, so Professor Ravindran, right? He's from IT Madras and he's also nominated as the president of AAAI and some of these leading global places. And we are actually tapping a very interesting market, which is on, you know, Indic languages, right? So we're known for a diversity. We have, you know, so many languages. And all of these frontier models like your, you know, GPDs and, you know, others, they will not perform as good as they perform in English, right? For other languages. So India has come up with, you know, our Indic models for, let's say, Hindi and other regional languages and so on. And good work. Yeah. So if you can follow some of those, you know, AI for Bharat and so on. So good amount of work is being done. I think we'll go back to our original skills. So, okay, okay. Every area in today's world, we are much of five. Yeah. So that's what I was telling that there is a good difference between wipe coding and AI assisted engineering. Yeah. Let me tell you the difference. Wipe coding is done by anyone and everyone. They have something in mind. They keep prompting until they get something and when they get the result that they want, they believe their solution is done, right? Whereas AI assisted engineering is done by people who know computing. They know how our website works. What is networking? What is optimizations? What is accessibility? What is usability? What is software architectures? How do you solve a problem for scalability? They know engineering, right? And they use AI to augment them. They can use the AI to do their code review. I think so. AI assisted engineering will improve our potential faster deliveries. All of that, it has tremendous potential, right? Which a lot of organizations are started to adopt. But wipe coding on the other hand is just like you're hitting in the dark. You keep prompting, you get something, you believe your solution is done and you're telling about AI is wonderful. I was able to do this in one hour. Okay. Nice. You've wipe coded and developed a platform. But is it following all the software engineering practices? Will it scale to 100 million users? Not really. Right? So we should go back to the basics and see that all of these are just wipe coding is nothing but tool calling and taking code from existing repository. It's all probability simply. So if you don't understand and just keep prompting, that is bad. There's a lot of good work around that also that how unknowingly or without knowing computing wipe coding can lead to dangerous results, right? Vulnerability is and all of that can come in because you really don't know what you're doing. You're just prompting to get something done. Right? That is bad. Whereas AI assisted engineering is you're using that as a companion. Right? That is good because you know what you're doing and you also know what it is producing. Right? You're just not you know prompting in the dark. Right? So there are interesting questions. AI for, you know, people with disabilities. Okay. Yeah. I'll be happy to chat about that. Like that's my area of assistive technologies and people with disabilities or accessibility and so on. Yeah. For other languages, models, token cost would be quite high. Yeah, but it is getting once the adoption is more once your models are, you know, or fire scale, the cost would come down, but we are making good progress there. Sir, but sir, don't we think everyone learn English and what is the advantages of working on different languages to train a model like we do in India? Yeah, it has its own benefits, right? I mean, everyone have knowing English or learning English has not stopped our country from speaking our native languages. Right? If you go to social media, people comment or post their views in non English a lot of times. Right? So if you want to mind data from that, if you want to, you know, use some of data analytics on that, then an English model or train on English alone is not surfacing. Right? So it has its own reasons to, you know, exist. And of course, there's literature, right? Let's say Hindi or Tamil or whatever language, they have their own vast literature, right? And how do you train all of that to an LLA? If it's only English, how do you train those? Right? By literature, I mean all the poetry and the literary work that exists. Right? Okay, so there are a bunch of other questions. So we have Appalachian, already a million unemployed. Now with automation and AI, things coming up, unemployment rate will increase. How do we tackle this? Unemployment rate, I don't believe will increase, but inequality will increase. Yeah, we will talk about that in a minute when we talk about the next few slides. I think five minutes is already over. Yeah, I hope all our backs will, let's again continue. What we did in the last one hour is we took a glance of the course, what we're going to do. We spoke about the handout, the textbooks, the assessments and all of those details. And we took a brief overview of the AI as a field and some of the takeaways where AI is not new. There has been PhDs coming out even in the 1970s, 80s and so on. And it is a, you know, particularly old field, but it did not make it to mainstream. It did not make it to mainstream because we did not have computation power. They were not better algorithms. There was no much data for steel. Right? All of them came together and then you know, they were interesting work in the last decade. And because of these commercialization of tools, the reality is now AI is in the peak of its existence. And we should also be careful that every now and then it has gone to some winters, the bad stages, but it has again bombs back. So there is also future. Right? We spoke about all that and we spoke about from being that stage where AI was a bad word where everyone felt these are highly optimistic people who just claim but don't do anything. We have now come to a way where AI shows promise in all walks of life. Right? Continuing to that, AI is an umbrella term. AI is a reality today because of the contribution from a lot of fields. Right? Right from philosophy, mathematics, economics, neuroscience, psychology, computer engineering, control theory, linguistics and so on. And there is a good, you know, section of the book which talks about in detail about these. In the next slide, I will talk about these in brief. But if you're interested about, okay, I come from a math background and the mathematician, but I'm doing this, you know, AI course now. I want to go into AI. There's a lot of interesting parts for you, like how math contributed to AI. Right? Let's say economics. Right? How has it contributed? Psychology. It is a lot of interesting work around the psychology of AI and how it behaves and so on. So they are interesting articles. And at some point, I will also post some, you know, blogs around this. And the meta point I'm trying to make is it is not just computer science people who have created or, you know, led to this transformation in AI. Right? There's that notion, right? A lot of people feel we own this. We are the ones who created AI. No, not really. Right? A lot of fields have contributed to the existence of AI. How? Let's say philosophy. Right? Philosophy is a very, very old field, right? Almost in existence from Aristotle in those days. And it fundamentally had these concepts of logic, logic reasoning, right? And the mind as a physical state that operates with rules and all that, right? So philosophers have cracked this thousand years back. Right? And they have been researching about all that. And now when you come to AI, all these questions are still valid. Right? How is it reasoning, reasoning models? What is the foundation of learning and, you know, rationality, language? All this are existing. Mathematics. Again, a slightly, you know, granular phase of let's say propositional logic, first-order logic. How do you infer things from a bunch of statements? Right? Computation. Complexity theory. All of this comes from math. Economics. You have things like the formal theory of, you know, decision-making, the Markos decision, game theory, right? And about the whole ROA, right? The decision that we make, the probability that it uses, what's the outcome? Is it all viable? The return on investment? All of those parts, right? And in particular, the more of game theory, right? You have Nash equilibrium and so on. Right? Have you heard about that? Anyone? It's a very interesting game theory, which comes from economics. Right? You would always try to optimize for a balance, right? Nash equilibrium, it is called. And there's a beautiful comic around it. When you learn about it, where two prisoners are put into jail and, you know, things like that. These are all very, you know, thought-oriented. These are beautiful experiments that came up. And they're all contributing to some or the other way in today's modern AI, right? Neuroscience, right? Neuroscience is the study of brain functioning, right? You take, let's say, brain imaging, you know, how the brain functions internally and so on. And then compare it to, you know, modern day machines. And psychology, right? How do we think? How do we act? Cognitive psychology and cognitive science, right? Or two interesting parallels. Cognitive psychology is about it perceives the brain as an information processing machine, whereas cognitive science is about how can computers model, right? Or they can be used to study language, memory and thinking from a psychology perspective, right? So, again, psychology is being heavily used. There are interesting thought experiments that people are doing from the psychology field where they use the same problem to all the leading models, let's say, in Germany, you know, Claude, GPT and all of the, you know, frontier models. And try to see what is their cognition, right? How these have been trained, what is their, you know, model and, you know, things like that. So, good, very good contribution from the psychology point of view. And computer science, of course, it does into making some of these powerful machines from all walks, right? From the hardware part of it, the architecture point of view, the software architecture, computer architecture, algorithms, all of them, right? So, all of these have contributed to the existence of, you know, today's AI. I will encourage you that you have a look at this section in your book where each of this are, you know, explained with some of those, you know, literature, some research papers on how they have significantly contributed to AI, not really from the example point of view, but it's interesting, right? How different fields have come together for AI. So, you can have a look at that, right? So, then this leads us to this question, what is intelligence? Okay, we spoke about applications and how all of them came together and so on, but what is intelligence? Right? The dictionary definition of this is the capacity of learning, reasoning, understanding, and similar forms of mental activity. Right? In other words, it is the ability to perceive and act in the world, right? If you go deeper into each of these terminologies, what is reasoning? Reason is proving theorems, medical analysis, and so on. Some examples. Planning is, you know, taking some decisions, how will you plan or how you go about doing something? Learning and adaptation is, you know, examples again, recommend movies and, you know, learn traffic patterns and so on, right? You just learn about it, then you would have, you ask your friend their preference, you learn about their preferences, then you recommend something, so on. Understanding, not just text, but speech, visual, non-visual communication, all of these, right? So, there is this thought about, okay, let's go with the definition of intelligence. It says capacity of learning, reasoning, understanding, and similar forms of mental activity. With this definition, is intelligence alone sufficient? Let's say someone is a philosopher. They have learnt, they have the ability to learn, they can reason things, they can understand, right? Is this alone helpful for the society? Give it a thought. The next one, like till the end of the class, we'll have a lot of these, you know, thought-provoking discussions. From the next class, we will go deeper into algorithms, how AI uses, knowledge and all that, but this is a very important, you know, area to first get the context right. Yeah, thinking alone, or, you know, having some of these learning, reasoning, understanding alone is not sufficient, right? Or in other words, thinking without action is useless. Why? Because how would you know if they have even thought about it? Let me give an example. There is a philosopher. All that they do is eat, sleep, think, okay? Very good. They are able to think. You might claim that as, okay, they're intelligent. They can think a lot, they're a philosopher, okay? But unless they do an action, which is until they don't produce a research paper or a book or something like that, how will we use that work or how will we even know that they were thinking? Are you all getting this rational? Yeah, all of you. Thinking is important, learning, reasoning, understanding, all of this is important, but doing this alone is not going to yield any benefit. Unless there is an action, how would you first of all know that they were thinking? Maybe they were sleeping. How would we know? Right? So there is a lot of stand around, thinking, learning, reasoning, understanding, adapting, all this is good, but that is not enough. Action. Action is important. A lot of people are taking that side that ability to perceive and act in the world is intelligence. Of course, in the context of doing all the other things of learning, reasoning, adapting, you know, these things. Right? Then there is this discussion about our humans intelligent. Yeah? Akansha, what do you feel? Our humans intelligent. Yeah? Vishal, are we intelligent? Maybe you are what about me? Maybe, yeah, depends. Right? Okay. Let me ask another question. Are humans always definition or always intelligent? Are humans always intelligent? Now there is a clear answer, no. Right? So there are three questions I have asked here. Are humans intelligent? Are humans always intelligent? Can non-human behavior be intelligent? Okay? First one, all of you told, okay, maybe it depends, no, I am intelligent, you are not. Yeah? Agreed. The next question we have a clear answer. Are humans always intelligent? Is no. Right? We all agree to that answer. Yes, we all make mistakes. We are not intelligent. We take stupid decisions. We regret about it. Then later, you know, retrospecting through. Then you might say, okay, humans are intelligent because he was at least clever enough to know his mistake. Let's not go into those philosophy. But in general, humans always are not intelligent. Agreed. Can non-human behavior be intelligent? Yes. Right? So there is good amount of, let's say, if there are pet parents and so on, they believe that, you know, dogs are really, you know, helpful intelligent in, let's say, surveillance and, you know, things like that. Right? So there are non-human, you know, organisms which do exhibit, you know, intelligent behavior. By intelligent, again, we already defined it. We told that it is able to perceive, it is able to act. Let's say there's a thief there, someone who has not been in your, you know, society ever. But it has crammed there. Then the dog perceives it, it acts by barking, alerting people around. Right? So non-human also exhibits some amount of intelligence going by the definition of intelligence. And humans always don't exhibit intelligence also be agreed. And are humans intelligent? That's still an open question. Few of you told, maybe, if you are optimistic, you then belong to the community. Yes, is what they say. But there is an underling question on replicating human behavior. Is that intelligence? And a lot of work in the initial days of AI was on this. The goal of people was that humans are doing this, machines are not doing this today. If machines can do this, that is AI. It's an intelligent machine. Do you get what in the 70s and 80s and so on. The goal of people who were working in AI field was to replicate human behavior. And that was the early hallmark of intelligence. Wow, a machine is able to play chess. It's able to beat a human being very good. That's intelligent. It's able to play some other game. It's able to, you know, do something which humans do very good. It's intelligent. Right? So early days, that was the metric. People started comparing some machine to human behavior and told if it is able to do what I'm able to, then this is intelligence. So far so good. No, no, AI and so on are different. They are all coming now. Right? So that's completely different. General intelligence and so on. But I'm talking about how it all started. Right? It started as mimicking. Right? It's more about replicating or mimicking that I'm doing something which currently AI is not able to and if it is able to do with whatever algorithms, whatever training or whatever underlying thing you do, right? There is symbolic AI. There is logic based AI. There is reinforcement learning deep learning, whatever. If it is able to mimic me, then that is intelligent. This was the early definition or goal that people had. Right? Inge is a more recent concept where people are talking about the general intelligence and it can surpass us and be one among us and things like that. But the start of mimicking or replicating was from the early days. Right? So far so good. All of you intelligence, what is intelligence? Intelligent versus humans. So far are we good? Are we all on the same page? Quick reaction. Yeah? And there are interesting questions you are talking about. Non-human intelligence depends on training, how I train a dog and all of those are completely acceptable. Right? Okay. Now what is AI then? Right? It's a very important slide. Around across the literature, it has been the last 50 years or so. Right? There are different definitions of AI that people have been aligning with. There is no right wrong all of these are correct in some sense. Right? But off-late, there is one definition which is emerging out to be more popular and promising. Okay? We are not rejecting any other definition here. All of them are correct in some form. And some people have spent all their lives doing work in that definition or they believe that is AI for them. Right? This is very important guys. Yeah, all of you come back. This is important. Right? Yeah, we will talk about that. Yeah, that is the discussion we will have. Right? Very important. There are four quadrants here. We have put some definitions across the last 40 years, 50 years research on what people believe is AI. Right? Again, repeat. All of them are correct. They are not wrong. They are different schools of thought. And as I told in the last few years, some of them are more promising and emerging out to be more agreed upon definition than others. Nevertheless, as I told, there are some group of researchers who strongly believe this is my definition of AI. This is what they work on even today. And we can't disregard that. They still publish papers with that area of what they claim as AI. With that definition, let's go on to explore these quadrants. We will do that for a good 15-20 minutes. Okay? The first quadrant is about thinking humanly. Right? There are definitions like the exciting new efforts to make computers think machines with minds and so on. There's some work from 1985. The automation of activities that we associate with human thinking, activities such as decision making, problem solving, learning and so on by Bellman in 78. These are all in this quadrant. Thinking rationally, the study of mental facilities, right, or faculties, through the use of computational models. Right? The study of the computations that make it possible to perceive reason and act. Right? Again, coming from 1980s and 1980s. Acting humanly says the art of creating machines that perform functions that require intelligence when performed by people. If you see the definition, it's telling it's the art of creating some machine that will perform some functions and that function to perform that would require some intelligence when it would have been performed by humans. Or in other words, the study of how to make computers do things at which at the moment people are better. Right? Night, I know, 1991. These are in this area. The last one is acting rationally. Computational intelligence is a study of design of intelligent agents. AI is concerned with intelligent, behavior in artifacts and so on. Right? If you carefully look at this matrix, right? The first row that is these two are more aligned towards thought, right? Thinking, right? That is what is this thought here. Thinking humanly, thinking rationally. And the second row is more towards behavior. It's more about acting. It talks about acting humanly, acting rationally. So these two are in towards the behavior. And the columns, if you see this first column is more human like we are comparing, you know, the AI should think like human. It should act like human. Whereas the second column says it should think rationally. It should act rationally. Don't compare with humans. Right? So this is what are four different takes or thoughts of school on AI. Let's try to simplify them. Right? The same four quadrants have simplified them further. Right? The title is the same. Human like versus rational. That is, this column will be more aligning towards human like the definitions. And this column will be more aligned with rational. Similarly, the first row is more towards thought. And the second row is more towards behavior. So then this first one becomes systems that think like humans. The second is systems that think rationally. Systems that act like humans. And the fourth one is systems that act rationally. If you even further, you know, bring it down. This is the four things that you will get. Thinking humanly, thinking rationally, acting humanly, acting rationally. Are we all together? I have done nothing. I have just taken some research papers. Put them into these four quadrants. Right? All of them are different work, different ideologies on AI. Right? We further simplified them into this smaller quadrant. And then even further simplified into this one. So there are a group of people who believe if a system thinks like human, it is AI. There's another group who argues that why should you compare with human? Humans are not always intelligent or maybe we don't know. It should think rationally. It should do what is right and not try to mimic humans. Right? So they were con thinking rationally. The next one is they this group tells there's no point in thinking if you can't do much. So let it act like human. When acting of course in a broader sense, if you want to act, you have to think. Right? In some cases you may act without thinking also. I'll come to that when we talk deeper about each of this. We will talk about that. And then the last one is about acting rationally. So these are the four ways someone can define AI. Thinking humanly, thinking rationally, acting humanly and acting rationally. Right? So far so good. This is how people have aligned their AI work in the last 50 years. But as I told, one of this quadrant is becoming more promising, more agreed upon in the recent past. And I'll talk about that after we discuss all the four. Okay? First, let's go to thinking humanly. Right? Thinking humanly. So there's a question. She says, thinking humanly is contradictory to thinking rationally. Some decisions no human would take that would only be rational solution. Yeah. So that is what I mean. So some, so these are schools of thought. Right? So some people work on each of these quadrants and they believe this is what is AI and they work on it. They produce papers. We cannot disregard that. Right? We will talk about why is it contradictory? What is more better aligned with today and so on when we talk about each of these quadrants. But very good. Yeah. That's the same process that the community started questioning. The first one is thinking humanly. Right? Thinking humanly is nothing but cognitive modeling approach. Correct? If you want to make a machine think like human, you should first know how humans think. Fair point. Right? Do we know how humans think? Anyone? Yeah. I should say this is acting humanly better than acting rationally. We will see, we will see. Yeah. It's not wrong. It's not right. All for our correct. Yeah. I'll conclude later. But for now, we will see each quadrant. Right? So this first category tells thinking human. Which means if a machine can think like a human, that is the area of AI. One group believes. Okay. If that is the case, then how do humans think first of all? You have to do some cognitive modeling, how human beings think of cognitive science and so on. So firstly, this is a field of research being done for over maybe hundreds of years. And even now we are not very clear how humans think. It's very hard to understand how humans think. Do you all agree? If it was easy to understand how we think, there will be no fights at our houses, you know? Because you know how they are thinking. And then again, neurodiversity and all that also are there. Perfect. And then there are also other angles of human beings. A lot of times do post facto rationalizations. Right? What do we mean by that? A lot of times human beings do something. And then when you ask them why you did it, they will come up with a reason to that. All of you, this is very important. Let's say, why she goes and picks up a coffee. She innately did it. But when I ask, why did you pick coffee, she'll tell you know what? I don't like tea. If I drink tea, I'll not be able to sleep on time. And you know, things like that. She's cooking up a story at that point or she's reasoning later. So it is from cognitive science research that a lot of human beings, it's very rare that someone, you know, does everything with rationality or reasoning, but humans a lot of times do something innately. And then reason about it. That is post facto rationalization or they rationalize their decisions that they took. Right? So firstly, it is complex already to know how humans think. And then, you know, mimicking that behavior to systems is a challenging part, but people have been doing that. This area of work exists. How do you capture human thinking? You can do introspection, you can do psychological experiments, you can do brain imaging and all of these two. First, know how human thinking works. And then you can mimic that or replicate that in AI systems, which aligns with this quadrant of that matrix, which is about thinking humanly. But then there is a bigger question. Vivian, those were asking already, Trinithian others, right? Do we want a machine that beats humans in chess or a machine that thinks like humans, why beating humans in chess? This is an interesting question. Deep blue machine, right? Had defeated Gary Kaspro. Wonderful, okay? Do we want that machine to win in chess in whatever way it wants or is it necessary that it should think like human and beat them? Okay? It's a very interesting thought experiment. If machines have to only mimic humans, then that will be as capable as humans only. If you go back to the deep blue example, right, it did not think like human, but it won the game, right? All the people who are watching the game told this is not a good move. It's making some crazy moves, but it won the game. So in that case, it exhibited some intelligence or thought process where it won the game, but it did not necessarily think like human to achieve that goal. Are you all getting this? Nireesh is bang on. He says, isn't the result the same? Then how does it matter? It matters because then the field will align to that direction of research, correct? If you align with the second approach, then your whole field will go towards how can I mimic humans? Whereas the first one is broader. It tells, leave humans. The end result is, should I beat them in chess? Whatever more I'll make, I'll make. You get the point, right, Nireesh? Everyone? Humans, how, how do I manipulate? Yeah, systems also have learned it because people have started to go in this direction, right? In between, there was a lot of work on this because they are mimicking humans. There's a lot of real world data that is biased, manipulative and toxic. And if you train it on the machine, the machine also learns that and it has, it has started doing it, right? I'll come again. Yeah, all of you, I'll come again. This is a very important discussion. I'll read this line again. Do we want a machine that beats humans in chess or a machine that thinks like humans while beating humans in chess? The result is the same, okay? The machine did succeed in beating a human in chess, okay? But how did we reach there? Did it think like a human to do that or did it just use its own way of doing things? You get that? Deep blue in particular did not think like a human. It did not think like a human and still won the game, correct? So this is again two thoughts of school. One people believe that if you think like human, right? Then the whole direction of research becomes do more research on human beings, how we think, how we process psychological experiments and then use that for your machines. Whereas in the first week, it was its own algorithms, its own learning, anything like that, right? Cool. There's another important analogy which might help you in this, right? Arunotical engineering textbooks do not define the goal of their field as making machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool even other pigeons. Are you getting this definition? Is it helping you? There are pigeons who fly. Arunotical engineers goal is not to create machines that will fly like pigeons so that they can fool pigeons. That's not the goal. Are we all on the same page in this? That's not the goal really. We want machines to fly, period over. Why are you keep on comparing that with mimicking pigeon and fooling pigeon and things like that? That is what we are doing in the IFA. We are constantly comparing with human intelligence that it should surpass it, it should think like human only and do something. What if it can just like machines? It has its own mechanic to do things. Sir, can't we simply call this out of the box thinking like a human thinking different from most human beings? Again, out of the box thinking is what? So that again comes from cognitive science. It is something that not everyone is usually doing but that is still a group of people are doing it. So what I'm trying to tell you is this first quadrant is going in that direction that it should think human. There are counterarguments to this that if it always thinks like humans and does, then it will be just as good as humans. Humans are not always intelligent, we are not always ethical, we are not always rational. So why are we doing that? Similar to this example that when we want to build a flight, we want to build a flight. We don't keep comparing with pigeons and pigeons should get fooled and things like that. Are we clear with this? We'll come to all that training and all of that later but is this thought process clear? The first quadrant, the first quadrant, people believed that if the machine thinks like human, it is AI. But these are some counterarguments that people are telling that why human? Why are you keep on comparing with human? When human beings themselves are not perfect, we have not understood about humans better. So far so good. Yes, this group believed replicating or mimicking human thought process. But now the group says there is other groups who are telling why should you mimic thought process? We'll go to the next quadrant, we'll see all the four then it'll be one more clear. The second one is the continuation of that. But again, thinking like humans is important in some applications. For example, intelligent you drink expressing emotions in interfaces that hit CIF. So let's say suppose you want to what and that robot has to express emotions. For that you want to do more work on human expressions, human emotions and when what type of emotions like for example, if I am let's say happy I smile and if I'm sad I might be silent. So these type of behaviors, we can explicitly model in these type of specialized applications so that they can exhibit these. So that is why thinking humanly still matters, few people are doing work on that. Growth of cognitive signs and AI support each other. General problem solver, there is this paper which talks about design to work as a universal problem solver, problems represented by on clause and so on. We want to the second one and come back. The second one is acting humanly. This is where the Turing Test approach comes. It is about creating machines that can act or perform tasks which would require intelligence when performed by people. Simple. Assume that you have built a machine that can act humanly. Let's assume you have built it. You are claiming it is acting humanly. Now let's test it. How will we test it? We will test using a Turing Test. What is a Turing Test? There is a human or a, you know, there is a human who is an Introgator. At this part there can be a computer or AI system or whatever or a human. This Introgator, the human Introgator will keep asking questions and the Introgator will get a response. And if that response is convincing enough that we cannot differentiate between if this is from human or computer, then this system is acting humanly. Let's read this. If the human Introgator cannot tell whether the response is from the other side of the wall are coming from a human or computer. It's so seamless that I cannot differentiate between. Then the computer is or we can say it is acting humanly. So this whole thought process or philosophy, this group of researchers who align with this definition tell that acting humanly is important. It should pass the Turing Test. Then it is acting humanly. So some of the initial models did not pass the Turing Test. So it's in the gray area. Some of the latest AI models, AI agents, they can pass the Turing Test in some cases. For example, the GPT 4.5 and so on. It was able to more than 73% or something. It was able to convince or give a response where the Introgator could not classify between if it was human or from a computer. So it was acting humanly in those cases. So this is a second quadrant or where people believe it should act humanly. Acting humanly, it needs a lot of necessary skills that system that you claim to have been built which is acting humanly. It should have NLP, knowledge representation, automated reasoning, ML, computer vision, robotics and all of that, which is what human beings have. We're doing all this. Who decides on the Introgator? Yeah, Introgator are just, you know, research scientists. There are also YouTube videos around this. You can watch those videos on how this whole thing is being conducted. Introgators are just human beings. They're like judges and, you know, who have experience in the field? They're not just random common people. And every year, as I told, it happens in Boston. It's also telecasted and so on. And, you know, also, there are, you know, some of these examples of, you know, some chat bots being built, which passed the Turing test for the first time, right, where 10 out of 30 judges believed that the response is from human, right? But in real, it was a chatbot. So now there is an accepted benchmark here that if 50% of the judges believe, 50% of the judges are above belief, then, you know, we put it in again, quantitative measure that, okay, this many percentage of people feel that this has passed the Turing test. But there is another interesting angle to this, which is if what if people, you know, call over a machine as a machine, I mean, a human as a machine. For example, Shakuntala Devi, right? Yeah, judges are humans, correct? Right? Shakuntala Devi, a lot of people, what was her pet name? No, no, that bias is not their judge. That is why we have a lot of judges, not just one judge. Human computer, yeah, very interesting, right? Shakuntala Devi was a great Indian mathematician, was termed as a human computer. This is a reverse know. Now, you are giving a human being as a machine, right? You're telling a human calculator or human computer and all that. Similarly, there was someone who was called for this, you know, Boston event, who was a sage peer expert. Who knew everything about his work, his life, his work, his character, everything? If some human exhibits that level of intelligence where they know everything about that, then we are terming them as computer then, right? So there are these reverse type of things also that people are claiming. Like, then are we calling these people acting computerally? Just like, acting humanly, are these people acting computerally? Right. But this is a discussion. This is a group around this facet of AI which talks about acting humanly, right? But some of the problems here are not reproducible, constructive, or mathematically, unlesible. Some of the problems with this acting humanly systems, which is what the field is still, you know, researching about that, how can that results be reproducible? Every time it does the same, you know, thought process, same result, from things like that. The next one is thinking rationally, right? The thinking rationally quadrant is nothing but the laws of thought. The laws of thought is nothing but it comes right away from Aristotle and so on, like, you know, what is the correct argument? People tell, right? Like, think logically. What does it mean? Right? That's when logic was invented from Aristotle from 3rd century. In all boring classes, students sleep. This is a boring class. What is the inference? Yeah. Students sleep in this class. Right? This is formal logic. This is all mathematical logic. Right? The phase of logic gave rise to codifying rational thinking, right? When elements are things, we reason about things, right? So one group aligned with this that the machine should do everything, which is rational, meaning it should logically do. It should take all the data that it has and it should logically come to a rational decision. Okay, very good. You can work on that research, but there is another group of people now claiming that is everything rational in this world? Yeah. What do you think? Gujuel Freeni Di. Let's say suppose there is a hot pancake, right? Hot pan. You have kept your hand in that, right? Will you do rational thinking there that, okay, this pan is hot. I've kept my hand. If I keep keeping it for a few more minutes, I'll burn my hand. So I should remove my hand. We're not doing that, right? Let's say a dog is chasing you. You're not thinking about, you know, which left, which right, you know, how's what speed should I calculate and run all that, right? So not all intelligent behavior is mediated by logic deliberation, right? We have reflexes in human beings. It is computationally exhaustive to build systems even with a few hundred facts, correct? Let's say you want to build a thinking rational agent even with few hundred facts, facts, meaning logic. We will actually learn about this facade also of this in the later part of this course. If you want to think and come up with a rational decision, you have to think about a lot of possibilities, correct? All types of decisions you have to think and then, you know, decide on something. So it is computationally very exhaustive to do that because this is a NP-complete problem. If you have already learned about data structures and so on. So even for a few hundred facts, you have computational number of two-power and calculations to make, right? You have to think about all the combinations of decisions, right? So these systems are not at least scalable. But there is work going around, let's say there's a smaller system only for some, you know, small, you know, domain. I can always build a rationally driven thinking rationally driven. Finally, the last one is acting rationally, right? Acting rationally is about building rational agents, right? An agent is an entity that perceives an acts, simple as that. Are human beings agents? Yeah. We are perceiving something and we are acting on it. Correct? We are agents, right? So this course is majorly about designing rational agents. Agent means something which acts performs an action on the environment. And a rational agent is one that acts so as to achieve the best outcome or when there is uncertainty, the best expected outcome. Right? Yeah? Yes, yes. Our brain is intelligent, but again, goes back to the first slide definition that are we intelligent? Right? You don't know. Always we are not intelligent. Maybe sometimes we are intelligent. Okay? So as I was telling, computational limitations make perfect rationality unachievable. Correct? But design best program for given machine resources, which means rational behavior means do the right thing, right? The right thing is what? That which is expected to maximize the goal achievement given the available information. Even in life, we do this, right? If you go back and think about I could have done better and so on, we should not be doing that. Why? Because at that day with whatever knowledge I had, I took a decision which was best at that moment. Correct? It turned out to be good or not is later, but let's say we are in a stable mind, we are taking a decision, we are acting on it. Usually at that point, that decision seemed to be the best decision. Do you agree? Which was expected to maximize the goal achievement given whatever our life experiences we had? Right? Cool. That is what we want to achieve. Rationality here can include correct inference, making an inference even when there is no correct inference, right? For example, you know, in uncertain situations, what do we do? Acting without inferencing, sometimes, right? Not needed always to be deliberative, but maybe using some reflexes, something like that, right? Rational behavior is not just about correct inference or thinking or skills, it is to pass the Turing test, right? So as I told in the beginning, off late, in the last couple of years, there is a lot more people who have started believing in this quadrant of AI definition. They feel that it should be a rational agent. It should not try to just mimic human behavior and it should not just think because thinking without action is useless. So let's have something which acts perceive and acts and tries to achieve the right thing given the goals and information, right? So far so good. Yes, no, maybe. Are you all convinced that this quadrant is the most promising, but that doesn't stop other people from doing research in others because that also is eating some important work, but this quadrant is gaining more popularity, right? And the whole agentic AI is standing in this definition that it perceives, it has some knowledge, it has some goals, it takes some action, it tries to optimize it, right? It falls under this definition of AI, right? We'll talk about some risks and then I'll leave you free for the day. Risks of AI, right? There are many risks. We'll touch upon some major ones, right? Little autonomous weapons, right? So the UN defines these as weapons that can locate, select and eliminate human targets without human intervention, right? Very, very important. Without even a human intervention, these systems can act, right? A primary concern with such weapons is the scalability, you design such an agent and it could actually act across the globe and target people and so on. So it's very dangerous, autonomous weapons. The second is surveillance and persuasion, right? AI can be used in scalable fashions, right? We know that, but it can also be used for mass surveillance and you know, so on, right? And it can also be tailored for information through social media and other platforms to influence behavior, right? You might have already heard about a lot of elections and so on, right? There is suspect that there's a lot of influencing being done and so on, right? Bias decision making, right? A lot of people were talking about this earlier, right? If you just mimic human behavior, what might come in? Now do you realize that quadrant, that quadrant, who we're telling acting humanly, humans are not perfect, right? If you just have the goal that AI systems should mimic human, then all this will come and it has already come in and now people are deliberately taking a conscious decision that how to eliminate those things, right? Careless or deliberate misuse of machine learning algorithms can lead to biases, by race, gender, other marginalized communities and all of that, right? The data themselves reflect this. That is why we are moving towards act rationally, right? Impact on employment, very important, right? Ujwail others from the beginning, right? They do some of the tasks that humans might otherwise do, but they also make humans more productive and therefore might give more employability and so on and make companies more profitable and therefore able to pay higher wages, right? But that being said, there's the next line. AI use generally results in increasing wealth, but tends to have the effect of shifting wealth from labor to capital, right? You're all working people needless to say you understand this. AI on one side will help few organizations to be super productive, make a lot of money, the share market is happy, everyone is doing good, but on the other hand, right? The inequality will grow. If not acted quickly, this will keep growing, right? That is what people mean by the impact on employment. One group will be very much into AI, being ultra productive, making money and so on, but the other group might not have access to this, so it is more capital centric than labor centric, right? So that's why it's already almost replaceable by AI like lot. So that's what I mean. By replaceable code is democratized. Writing code is not the most sort of skill because as you told, Claude, Courser and whatnot, but can it autonomously build a system which is successful in the market, which people are really willing to pay, which can scale to a 1 million people, which exactly models what humans want. It's not eliminating software engineering as a whole. Yes, some parts of coding it can replace, but what about requirements, gatherings, software architecture, usability and all of those aspects, right? So that is still an interquestion. Yeah. And of course, safety critical applications, in some safety critical applications, if you use AI, which is ill-informed, it can directly go to like ill effects like directly impact people's life, health and so on, right? So there is already, you know, talks about developing technical and ethical standards for these. And of course, cybersecurity, right? Cyber-security, again, new attack vectors will emerge, new forms of, you know, attack behaviors and so on. And with wipe coding and so on, this is even more problematic because people without an understanding of computing principles are building systems, right? POCs are okay, but if you just push it into production and so on and, you know, they are not built on the principles of, you know, software engineering and software architecture. So they are more prone to attacks. And finally, other risks, many important risks that we initially spoke, sustainability and, you know, other social issues and so on, right? So that's pretty much for today, right? I'll upload the deck. We will start with agents in the next class, right? There are a bunch of things in the slide. I'll anyway upload this. I don't worry about that. There are like four or five more slides about what is agent, what do they do, and you know, some, you know, gold oriented. There are different types of agents and so on. We'll talk about all this in the next class, right? I'll stop the recording. I'll be here for a few more minutes. We can have, you know, any questions if you have. Otherwise, I'll meet you the next Sunday. Yeah. Let me just stop the recording.