Transcript: ACILecture2.mp4
============================================================

Okay, I've stuck the recording. It's still an 0.820. Let's give it a couple of moments. I mean, if you've got a chance to look at the announcements, announcements and discussions, let me just share my screen. Let me know once the screen is visible. Yeah, so how many of you saw this PDF? I had uploaded this a couple of days back as an announcement. You should have already received an email about this. Cool. Cool. This is about our EC1. Just so that you can plan your time better, all of the details of EC1 are available in this PDF. This is already there in the announcement. EC1 is for 30 marks. We will have two quizzes, but we'll be considering just one of the quizzes. Both will be for five marks. We'll take the best score out of the two quizzes. All the dates of the quizzes from 4th June to 9th June, 5 days and from 5th August to 10th August. Also, the syllabus. All of those are available and it will be an individual quiz and it will happen in text-illown. Coming to us, it will be for 25 marks. There will be two assignments. Both will be group and both us, our manditriks, not like best, often so on. The first assignment would be for 12 marks. The second assignment would be for 13 marks. And here again, you have the dates. So this whole thing has been announced. So if I were you, what I would do is I would go and bookmark all these dates and make calendar so that I don't miss it out. There will be of course announcements once the quiz goes live, once the announcement of the first assignment goes live, there will be announcements but ensure that you don't miss on these timelines. Yeah, happy good on this. Any queries on the EC1? All the dates of assignments quizzes are already out. So sufficient time, like 15 days for assignments, each of them and 5 days for quizzes. And of course, once you start the quiz, it will be just for 30 minutes or 1 hour. Yeah, EC2 and EC3 also has been already put in the announcement. I am not put it here because this document is just for EC1. But if we were to go to the announcements, let me just quickly go there. So this was the announcement and in that I have put these. Now, we will have hundreds of students run ill. So I'll keep taking questions as you see I am taking questions. So you can quickly know put in the questions and we'll have some dedicated time in between and at the end and at that point, I'll enable it. So if you see here, the EC2 dates are also here. 21st June is the regular exam and make up exam is on 28th. Similarly, the final exams are 6th September and 13th September. Right. That's the EC2 dates. And about the groups, it will be, you know, finalized soon. The back end team will actually enable it. And once it is enabled, you will have an opportunity to choose your own groups. And each group will have exactly 5 people, not 4 of them. This is a core course. We have 1000 plus students and it will be for 5 students across the sections. And this was also already discussed in the discussion. Someone had asked me and I remember you know and setting them here. Right. Yeah, so it's not yet enabled. You will get, you know, email from the back end team. Once that is done in the same portal, you will be able to go drag and drop and choose your own teams. Right. That will be for the assignment. And it will be remaining the same for both of the assignments, not different different groups. One group for this course and that will be it for both the assignments. Anything on that or how you go to. That's about or EC1, EC2, EC3 and so on. So now let's get back to. Of course, right. So in the last class, what did we really do? Right. Groups are specific. So yeah, it is subject specific. Yeah, they're not across the semester because different students might have taken different electives and so on. So it is very much subject specific. All of these details are subject specific. Right. Like the dates, the number of quizzes, number of assignments, the scores of it, the group size, all of these are. Core specific subject specific. Yeah. Cool. So what did we do in the last class? Let's have a quick recap of that and then continue doing our next topics. So we got started with the course. We also got started with the history of AI and then we also quickly looked at some definitions of AI. Right. So if you guys remember, we had those four quadrants that we were discussing. Right. So it was all about thinking humanly, thinking rationally, acting humanly and acting rationally. And I also concluded the session with one of them is becoming more prominent in the last few years. Derember, which one is that among these four? Right. Among the four, right, the fourth one, which is acting rationally is becoming more prominent because now people have realized we've come to a conclusion that the goal of AI system is not just two mimic humans. Right. So it's not just to act like humans or like think like humans. As long as it is acting rationally, it's good. Right. So we looked at each of those four and took some examples about the Turing test and all of that. And someone had also asked me about, you know, if there are any examples of each definition, right. So you could also offline refer to this light. I'm not going in depth, but the first quarter and example could be, you know, this looks similar to one I saw yesterday. I think the answer could be around 50. Right. So humans think like this, right. So if the AI starts behaving like this, right. If it starts reflecting human-like thinking, right, driven by emotions, habits or some past experiences, rather than any logic, then that becomes thinking humor. And some examples of thinking rationally could be the thing that you usually do, right. You and be like, okay, all the segments are due tomorrow must be completed by today because only then you can submit. And then you also deduce that, okay, I have AI as an event also, which is due tomorrow. So therefore I must complete it today, right. So it's a very step by step reasoning. There's some logic in it that, okay, if it's tomorrow, then I'll have to complete it today and so on. And it's independent of emotions, right. It's pure logic step by step deduction. So if the AI starts behaving like this, right. If it has a set of rules, it start deducing things, logical reasoning, it is more of thinking rationally, right. But you've actually not done this inventory yet, right. You just thought about, you know, and acting humanly example could be like, hey, that sounds stressful. Want to talk about it, even if it's not like thinking, you might have seen such statements in chatbots these days, right. So if you give some stressful situation or if you talk about your day, it would ask you things like this, right. So it is actually not thinking like a human internally, but it acts like a human, right. It is showing some empathy and it wants to initiate conversation. And this quadrant or this behavior in itself is a very debatable thing. Yeah. So we'll talk about it sometime later in this course when it comes to ethics, right. One of the last classes and it is believed that some AI agents or some solutions are wantedly tuned to do this. So that humans get more, you know, dependent on AI systems and they keep talking about their, you know, day-to-day life, their problems, their, you know, joys with AI, right. So this concept is called, if I'm not wrong, anthropomorphism, right. Anthropomorphism is about believing that there are human-like characteristics to non-humans, right. So like, there are pet parrots, right. So they will give it a name to a pet, they will, you know, have dresses for pets and you know, things like that. So similarly, there's a group of people who have already started treating AI like humans, right. So they talk about their, so they use it as their, you know, therapist, right. So they talk about their day, they talk about what's going on if they're sad and all that. And some AI's are wantedly created to encourage this behavior, right. So even though it's not a human, it can act like a human. Like this line, right. It that sounds stressful, want to talk about it, right. So if a chatbot talks like this, it's acting like humanly, but not necessarily internally taught like a human, right. The final one, if you want to reach, let's say, office quickly, right. What do you do? You check the traffic on maps, you choose the fastest route. And maybe if you realize that, okay, you can't walk, then you take a cab, you actually book it and you know, you start going in the cab, right. Here, you're acting to maximize your goal, right. So which is to reach faster regardless of how you think it, right. You want to act rationally. So these are some examples, but we already discussed this in depth. I think someone had asked in the last last, so I thought I'll just have one slide. And the crux of this is these four points. So thinking humanly means how humans think and creating a system which can, you know, mimic that acting humanly is how humans behave. If you align with that and create an AI, which can, you know, mimic human behavior, then that's acting humanly. And then thinking rationally is what is logically correct and acting rationally is what gives the best of. And doing that action, right. And we also looked at all of these risks and that is where we had stopped in the last class, right. So far so good. All of you. We've not done anything much. We just got introduced to the course of one of basic definitions, the history and all of these definitions are correct. They are not wrong by any notion, but there are people who are doing research in each of those quadrants and believe this is AI and this is the only AI also, right. But the last quadrant, all of you has rightly pointed, they're acting rationally as taken over and a lot of people are now believing that that is the most, you know, promising definition of AI, which is to act rationally. And we also looked at plenty of risks associated with AI and we had stopped there. So we'll continue from there. They were a couple of slides. We had not covered in the last session. We'll complete that and then go to the next deck. So first things first, what is an agent? Right. So an agent is anything that can be viewed as perceiving its environment through sensors and acting upon that environment through actuators. So this is a continuation of your previous definition. We told that, okay, we want to act rationally, but how do you act rationally? Right. So an AI agent or an agent in general, it could be a robot or anything. It has to first perceive the environment, right. Only if I know what is around me, what is going on, I can then act upon it. Right. So a human agent, right, we have sensory organs like IZE or is and so on. And we also have actuators like other body parts, mouth, leg, hands and so on. So we perceive certain things using our sensory organs and using our actuators, we do some actions. Right. Any agent in simple has two things. One is perceiving, one is acting and how do you perceive using sensors? Right. And how do you act using actuators? What about a robotic agent? Robotic agent has a lot of cameras infrared, you know, range finders and so on as their sensors to know about its environment. And once it knows if it has to act on the environment, if it has to do something, it will have various motors as its actuators. You get what I mean? In simple, an agent is something that perceives and acts to perceive. It uses sensors to act. It uses actuators symbol. What about an AI agent there? Right. An AI agent are intelligent entities, right, which are powered by LLMs, capable of perceiving environment, reasoning about goals and executing actions. Again, a similar definition only here also it is perceiving. It is executing also, but off late, there has also been this whole field about reasoning models and so on because we want to know, how did the AI really get to the goal and not just, you know, do the action, right. And AI agents are powered by LLMs, right. So this course is not about LLMs, but just for you to understand, an AI agent is again an agent which is going to perceive and act. But to do that, it is powered by these large language models, right. An AI agent senses its environment, processes information, makes decisions and actions aligned with achieving the azaleed objective. Right. So technically an AI agent also is a type of an agent in a broad term that it perceives its environment, meaning whatever action has been given, it understands what it is and then it acts through its actuators. Right. And of course, this course is not about AI agents, agent, AI and all of that, but at this point, it is a good time to have a difference between what they are, right. And in this course, we will treat an agent as a rational agent and not going to specifics like, you know, if it's a robotic agent, if it's an AI agent and so on, but just to clarity, we have this difference and the difference between these two is ideally on the level of autonomy, right. Let's say a customer support bot that answers, you know, FAQs using predefined scripts or some logic or some reason rules, it is an AI agent. Right. So AI agent does not have a lot of autonomy, right. Any bot that you might have seen in all of these commercial apps today are technically an AI agent. It is trained on all the past, you know, FAQs and what people might be asking, it has some predefined scripts. It has already learned some logic, okay, if these type of questions come, I love to refer to these and, you know, answer in this way. It doesn't age it, but agentic AI is slightly more in terms of autonomy. So it's a network of bots, right. Or if it's a network of AI agents that not only answer FAQs, but also escalate issues, analyze customer sentiment, adapt responses and coordinate with, let's say, back and systems and so on, autonomously. Right. Then that is an agent to AI. So this needs a lot more software engineering to it, right. For example, the orchestration, the by planning, all of these are needed and that is the predominant difference between AI agent and agent to AI. So there's a question in the chat in your previous slide, the difference between AI agent and agent is reasoning for career. Yes. So reasoning, even an agent has reasoning, but an AI agent, a lot more emphasis is placed on the reasoning part. That to off-lit, right, because we want to know about what's the thought process behind it. That's why in all of these commercial solutions, like let's say, chat GPT or Germany and so on, you see that part where it is thinking, right. So it tells that thinking and then produces some output or it does some planning before it actually, you know, puts the output. There are also some modes in all of these apps where you can configure that, right. So this slide is technically not in this course, but let me spend another minute here. Across the course, we will be talking about agents. We are not necessarily talking about AI agent or agent decay and so on, right. By agent, what we mean is anything, which is a rational agent, right. A rational agent will come in another slide. The next slide. Basically, it is something which perceives and acts by perception. We mean it uses its sensors by action. We mean it uses its actuators, but you might get confused as to, you know, we're talking about agents. Does it mean AI agent and so on. So we have this slide and what is the difference between these two? You'll keep hearing these terms in the industry. AI agent and agent AI is just where there's a very thin line and that line comes because of the level of autonomy. An AI agent is someone who has predefined information. It's been trained on some data and it has some predefined scripts. It can do an action. That's it, right. An example is this. Let's say you have, you know, a swiggy order you want to talk to an agent. A lot of times it's an AI agent, which is talking to you before it goes to a human, right. So what it has been trained on. It has been trained on all the past FAQs, predefined scripts, some learned logic and it has been, you know, also trained on certain rules on how to answer. That's all it does, right. And beyond a control, it does nothing. It can just tell you want to talk to a human agent. That's all it doesn't do anything more, right. And if this is packaged into a software that is an AI assistant, believe it. Yeah, that's pretty much right. An agent is that core part, which is actually powered by these scripts, these LLMs and so on. And if you wrap it around in a software engineering context, it could be like a infieldy text box or it could be, you know, chatbot and so on. That's the assistant, right. And agent TKI is much more than that in terms of the autonomy, where what we mean is it's a network of agents, right. So what they really do is they could not just answer things, but they could escalate issues, adapt to sentiments. They can contact other agents to do something and so on. So it's more of an orchestration between agents, right. And they are all predominantly powered by LLMs, right. And there are a lot of background to this in itself could be a course, right. So there is tool calling, there is MCPs, there is agent to agent protocol and a lot of other things. But this is just a caution that whenever we talk about agent in this course, that necessarily doesn't mean AI agent, right. It could be any rational agent, right. And what is a rational agent will look at it in a minute. Right. But you mentioned autonomy, autonomy is also at AI agent level. It is, that is what I meant. It's the level of autonomy. If the level is slightly more than it is agent TKI. If the level is lesser, then it is a agent. If you see here in an AI agent situation, there's only one agent, but in an agent TKI, you cannot call agent TKI if it's just one agent working. Right. You could call even one if it has capabilities to do a lot of other things like escalating, analyzing things and coordinating with other human or, you know, AI agents and so on. So it has a lot more autonomy and you know, that's the difference between them. Right. Exactly. Like using tools and so on, right. MCP and things like that comes into play. Whereas a typical agent alone doesn't do all that. It has its own memory. It has some databases which is trained on. It has some scripts. It just behaves. It is not doing any tool calling or, you know, talking to other agents to get something done and so on. Right. That doesn't do that. Yeah, does AI agent or agent TKI request data to act? Can I have an agent without data set? Yes, you can because all of these are powered by LLMS. So AI agent or agent TKI in itself is just another software, but it is powered by LLM and that LLM is trained on these data. Right. So again, let's not go too much into it as I want. This is not a part of this course at all. Right. But the whole reason why we have this is across the course, I will use the term agent. So agent is pretty broad, right. It's not just an AI agent or agent TKI and so on. It is anything which can perceive an act. So by that definition is a human and agent. And I say system of agents is the very good. Yeah, that's perfectly right. So that's the good thing. I mean actually a system of agents is agent TKI individual agent has limited autonomy is just one AI agent. Yeah. So some examples of agents right physically grounded agents. There could be intelligent buildings. There could be autonomous space crowds. There could be expert systems. There could be you know all of these, you know, today's trending tools that you see all of these are agents in some sets. Right because at the end of the day, they can also perceive by perceive. I mean what you are inputting to it or an intelligent building can perceive the weather and it can act on it. Right. And all of these tools can perceive what you type and then you know, try to take some action and use output. Right. Anything that perceives an actions in agent. So these are all some examples. Intelligent agents, right intelligent agent or rational agent, right. Have sensors and effectors or actuators as we already discussed. An agent will use some of those sensors to perceive the environment. Right. And then take an action. Right using its actuators. An agent function maps from percept histories to action. Right. Meaning an agent function is inside this agent, which means this should be some way right. Okay. I'm I'm perceiving something in this environment. And now I have to take some action that mapping, right. Whatever I perceived and to translate that into action, there is something going within the agent, right. That is the agent function. We'll talk more about it. We'll talk about a different type of agent models and that time you will go deep into this. So then fundamentally what is an agent program, right. An agent program runs on a physical architecture to produce this. Which is this function, right. Agent is nothing but that architecture plus the program, right. This is your all simple basic definitions, but the crux of this is agents have something within them, which is an agent function. And it is all about how to get the perception and based on that percept, how do I act? And there are different ways to do this. We will talk about it once we start the second deck, right. So it could be either goal oriented. It could be utility oriented and so on. We'll talk about that. There is a very simple example for you, right. So this is a traditional typical example of a vacuum cleaner agent, right. There's a vacuum cleaner and there are only two rooms in this use case. Yeah, all of you I want to focus is a very simple example, but it nicely, no demonstrates what we have been talking about. There are locations, right. There is a room a there is a room B, right. And there could be per sets, meaning a comma dirty means in room a there is dirt. B comma dirty means room B has dirt. That is what it can perceive. What are the actions it can do this, you know, vacuum cleaner agent. It could either go left right. It could suck the dirt or no operation. Meaning when there is no dirt in a room and if it's standing there, what would it do? It would do nothing, right. So let's say suppose it is in a what are the legal operations that it can do. Can it go left from here? From a cannot go left right because this room ends here. It cannot go left all that it can go is it can go right or it can perform the suck operation of removing this dirt. Let's say it is in B, right from B. What is the legal operation then anything about it? This vacuum cleaner agent is in room B from room B. It cannot go right because there is no room here. It can only go left or it can suck this dirt or if there is no dirt in both the rooms, it will do no operation. It will just keep quiet. Yeah, have a look at this particular, you know, percept sequence a comma clean, right. This is a very, very interesting fundamental, you know, part of how I begin. If you see this a comma clean means what? The room a is clean. That is what it perceived, right. It is in room a now and it perceived that that room is clean. Then what should it do? It could go right because I want to now go right and check if B room has dirt. So that I can clean that room. Correct. What about the second line? If it perceives a comma dirty, right. Maybe initially a was clean. It wanted to go right. The next example is a comma dirty. It perceives that a room has dirt. Then what will be the operation? It will do it will suck the dirt. What about B comma clean? If it realizes that room B is clean, there is no job for it in room B. So it will take left and go to room A. But if it perceives B comma dirty, right. If B room is, you know, dirty, it will perform the suck operation to remove that dirt. What about these two in this example? Let's say suppose I perceive two times the same behavior, right. A comma clean, A comma clean. If it's A comma clean, right. I did no up. Very good. When it's A comma clean, I did nothing. And again, A comma clean. I realize that, you know what? This room is clean now. So let me instead of doing no operation and sitting idle here. Let me take, you know, right. Go to B room and check if that is having dirt. Very, very important. Right. When it was A comma clean, this was a single example. Right. So technically, you have, you know, someone in the chat had put if A comma clean is there, should this be represented as A comma no up? No, not A comma no up. No up is an operation. It is an action, right. An action of doing nothing. So technically you can put here, right. As no up initially it was clean. It did nothing. It kept quiet, right. But if it is dirt, it will suck. Right. In this two, right. What's actually happening is we just assume that, okay. Let the cleaner not instantly take an action. Right. For example, A was clean. Don't immediately go to right. Wait for one more perception. Wait for maybe one more minute. And again, if it is clean, then you go to the other one. Right. So we are putting something like that. A comma clean, A comma clean. Right. Two times I perceived that bot again failed that it was clean only. Right. So the first time when it perceived what it did. What was the action when it did? Can someone correctly tell this? Yeah, it means two perceptions it did. Me an actually the first time it actually saw it was clean. What did it do? No up, right. It kept waiting. Okay, let me not quickly hurry and go to the other room. Let me wait for some more time. It perceived again, right. All of these are configured by the, you know. Developers of this agent, right. We could tell that you should perceive the things. Every let's say five seconds or you know 10 microseconds or whatever. Very good. It waited it again perceived again. It felt it is clean, right. Okay. Now that it is again clean, maybe I should go to the next room. Right. It went to the right. A comma clean. Okay. The first time it was clean. It waited for a while and then someone has put a dirt. Now what it should do? Now that it perceived dirt, it should not go to the other room. It should first, you know, such this dirt. Right. Similarly, you can also configure it to act on three. Right. Maybe you wait for three times. Right. It's clean. It is clean again. You take right and go to the B room or if it's clean, clean, then it finds the dirt. Right. Then such that and so on. So you could keep going, you know, you can design such agents. But the crux of this slide is to tell you that. Based on the percept. An agent can take actions and already there are some illegal actions that I told you that if the room is where the agent is, it cannot go left. Similarly, if the agent is in B, it cannot go to right. Right. A comma clean, B comma clean action equal to nobs. Yes, that is correct. Right. It would wait for a while. Again, go back to the other room. If it finds no dirt, it will do no hop again. So it can keep that's all legal. Right. So far, we have just seen what is an agent. It has perceptions and it can act on it. And there are some legal and illegal actions. Right. Is it like waiting for some amount of time? Yes, exactly. And that is all, you know, configured by the developer. Right. And tell, you know what to do. Right. And now there is this whole notion of rational agents or some people also call it intelligent agent. Very important. Try to see the difference. What is an agent? An agent is something which can perceive the environment and take action using the actuator. Done. But what is a rational or intelligent agent that because that was what was the fourth quadrant. We told it should act rationally. Then what is it? An agent should strive to do the right thing based on what it can perceive and the actions it can perform. The right action is the one that will cause the agent to be the most successful. Right. What is a performance measure? An objective criterion for success of an agent's behavior. Right. So what we are now telling here is an agent should strive to do the right thing. Right. If I'm in room a right. What should I strive if there is dirt. I should clean it. I should wait for a while. Maybe and if there is no dirt, the best thing for me is not to keep sitting in that room. The best thing for me to then though is to go to be room and check. Right. And if I'm be room, I should not take right. Right. I don't want to go because there's no more room in the right of be. Right. So any agent which is consciously designed and which is striving to do the right thing. Right. It will succeed. Right. And for that right thing, you need to then explicitly have certain performance measures for that. Right. Exactly. So how the agent will know the right thing. We have to first decide. We have to for any agent first think about what is that right thing for this agent. How can I measure its performance? Right. For example, for this agent for the vacuum cleaner agent. Some performance measures could be the amount of dirt cleaned up. What about if there is dirt, but it is still not recognizing perceiving or if it perceived and did not clean, right. Then it's not doing the right thing. Right. So amount of dirt cleaned, amount of time taken, amount of electricity consumed, amount of noise generated. All of these could be performance. Right. But performance alone is also not enough. Right. We should have all of those. We will come to that. That's called a P a specification and the next lights we will talk about it right. So this what is an agent right. We will talk about a lot of different ways an agent can do this right and that is what are agent architectures or agent types right. We should program in some cases it will learn by itself right. There are different cases right. The simplest one is we have programmed it and that is what in 1980s people were doing right. It is a very rule based system. You tell everything and it matches certain rules. There's something that is still an agent right. Cool. Ideal rational agents are what right. For each possible percept sequence does whatever action is expected to maximize its performance measure on the basis of evidence perceived so far and built in knowledge right. It's a very, very important definition right. Again try to apply to human beings right. What are we doing. So far we have some knowledge we have some experience right with all of that in mind. Whatever action I can do at the moment to maximize my performance in life I do that. So far so good. What is a firstly we looked at there are three words here guys be very careful what is an agent an agent perceives an ads. Simple what is a rational agent a rational agent is someone who strives to do the right thing and the right thing should be configured either it is self learned or it is given by humans there is a specification we have to come up with it and now what is an ideal rational agent ideal rational agent is someone who knows okay this is my possible percept sequence I have taken all these percept sequences. I know these are the possible actions that I can take but I will do the one which will maximize my performance measure right and it could be maximizing one performance or multiple right for example in the previous case I could either optimize for the time taken or it could be for the you know electricity consumed and so on right. But all of this is also based on the evidence perceived so far that is important right. So far whatever I have perceived based on that and my built in knowledge whatever was given to that agent while it was created right then it is an ideal rational agent right a lot of times human beings tell right like I could have done better no there is no sense in such you know dialogues in any pointing life in a stable mind we take decisions which is right or at least we expect that to maximize the potential based on that days knowledge that we had right you can then go back and tell that I could have done better and you know had I known this no you didn't know that right similarly an ideal rational agent might go wrong in future it might not maximize its performance right but you can't go and tell that you know you did not maximize it is bad and so on because at that point so far whatever it had perceived and based on its built in knowledge it had taken some action which it expected would maximize the performance is it really maximize the performance or not is not a question here if it tries to behave in this fashion it can be called as an ideal rational agent right so far so good rationality is distinct from omniscience right so omniscience means all knowing with infinite knowledge and you know so on and human beings also don't have omniscience right we have finite knowledge with that knowledge so far we actually go and take an action which is possible right cool that being said agents can perform actions in order to modify future percepts so as to obtain useful information right for example there can be agents which can first try to gather more information right sometimes it will try to explore certain things before doing it so that it can maximize its action what we mean is so this knowledge so far can actually be slightly expanded right even in your bot interaction sometimes you might actually give a long task to let's say chargeability it will tell you that okay these are all the things I have perceived these are all the things I can do and can you give me these more information right and it actually questions you back before it gets on to the task as anyone face this yes no so sometimes it will give you you know a plan of action or ask okay yeah claw out all of these we all of them start doing yeah so all of them are the same yeah that is basically what it's trying to do is it's trying to explore or gather a little more information so that it's and certain please you pleasing you is nothing but maximizing its performance right so actions you can tune agents to also do that at times it can you know try to gather more information or future percepts we actually directly questioning or you know exploring more an agent is autonomous if its behavior is determined by its own experience right with the ability to learn and adapt right our ideal rational agents possible yeah it's it's again in between right you cannot tell like always 100 percent it's possible but that is where we are heading right so far whatever we have perceived you know trying to take the best action at that moment is a ideal rational agent so now how do you specify for an agent what are these you know performance measures and so on right so there is this quick you know technique which stands for P is right P stands for performance measure E stands for environment A stands for actuators and S stands for sensors right so this technique is very commonly used in agent design right any agent that you talk about can we first come up with this framework for this agent what is the P E A S yeah was this yes was an autonomous car right it's an automated car taxi for this agent what could be the P A S right performance measure could be safety right it should be fast legal comfortable right it should maximize the profits right all of these right what is the environment the environment where this is acting the roads the traffic signals pedestrians other cars signals all of that actuators and sensors yeah I sure it's pretty simple sensor is for input right I want to sense just like our sensory organs right eyes knows yours and so on actuators is to do an action like for human beings you have your hands you can also talk mouth leg and so on right sensor is to get input or observe actuator is to do some action so for this agent a sensor could be cameras GPS sonar you know it could also have keyboards engine you know sensors and so on what would be actuators it could be the steering wheel accelerator brake signal how are you going to want yeah so these are not exhaustive by the way right so it's not exhaustive just giving you some examples so this should be one of a good notion for us if we talk about an agent are we able to come up with this P E A S specification right which is a very important aspect of an agent design which we will continue today as well right so today also we'll talk about a lot of these intelligent agents and we're on maintenance and so on and this is the today's deck what about medical diagnosis right let's say there is a medical diagnostic system right which has been trained on all these you know medical knowledge there is whatever there's the let's assume this is a black box for now you query something you get some advice out of it what could be the P E A S for this the performance measure could be healthy patient minimize costs less lawsuits and so on right what could be the environment accuracy very good right accuracy satish and others yeah so always as I told in the last class if you go into our tuxilla page inside that there is a files folder and you will find the material right it will be available always after the class in 20 hour class and 10 30 you will find it yeah cool so all of your answering which is very good so the environment is where the system is acting right the patient the hospital the staffs all of them are the environment the actuators is the screen display right which has questions test diagnosis and so on right and the sensors could be like a keyboard where you enter you know symptoms findings and so on and patients answers right that's the sense okay I have this activity for you there is this part picking robot meaning there are a lot of these parts you know going on in a conveyor belt and there is this robot and it is going to pick it up it is going to pick it up arrange them and so on right what is the or more like a schematic diagram here it takes all the reds here and you know things like that so for this agent which is working here what is the PES what could be their performance measure what is the environment in which which is working and what is the actuator and what are the sensors yeah give it an attempt go ahead correct classification very good okay very nice correct classification acuere see those are all performance okay very good what about next what is the environment right number of item picked very good that could also be a measure right environment is a conveyor belt factory very good yeah the environment where it is working and what could be its sensor and you know actuator is robotic arm very good yeah nothing perfect sensors could be its camera its color coding all of that okay okay perfect I'm just putting again a bunch of answers these are not exhaustive you all are right right percentage of parts in correct bins like that classification right environment is the conveyor belt with parts bins all of that actuators is that you know robotic arm and sensors could be camera joint angle sensors and so on right so far so good are we comfortable doing this activity yes no why shall the others all of you and that's today's exercise in the last slide in this deck there are a bunch of such questions and you would solve this and put it in tuxela all that you will do is there are two questions two or three questions like these right you will have to come up with PES specification right if you are clear with this you've got one mark in the mid-sem exam yeah that's for performance measure we have understood this concept or not for any agent we should be able to come up with a bunch of performance measures in the environment actuator and sense right all possible ones after that the developer will decide on okay which performance measure I want to optimize what type of environment it is which activate actuators to use which sensors to use what is the cost behind it and all of that but for a given agent are we able to come up with the possible PES specification that is important right yes these can be different yeah as you told you all are coming out different answers right and they're all correct there's no exact one answer but you cannot be you know radically wrong right the environment here cannot be you know something like not at all discussing about this factory or conveyor belt with parts and that's wrong obviously right cool there are two three questions and go ahead and try to solve it offline and try to put it in a discussion okay we speak about PES which is good but now let's spend some time on environment right actuator and sensors are not really a part of this course because that's a low level hardware type of a discussion if it's software at the end of the day just a bunch of input output text or you know multimedia that's it but what about this environment right there are a lot of types of environments right energy consumption can also be yes of course it there are a lot of properties of environments which we have to be aware of so that the agent can work in these accordingly right very important all of you come back again focus your first things first observability right and then for all of these we have a separate slide we will talk about it but I'm just listing you things here observability meaning the agent can have full observability or partial or not at all deterministic versus stochastic right or it could be episodic or sequential right or it could be static semi dynamic or dynamic or it could be discrete and continuous or it could be single and multiple we look at each of them and then it will be even more clear first let's look at observability right can the agent or its sensors give it access to the complete state of the environment at each point in time if that is possible then it is fully observable let's say an agent who is playing a tic tac toe or let's H s at any point that agent has the complete observability of this game correct it knows where all the coins are what it has moved what the other opponent is moving all the information it is able to observe then such an environment is called as fully observable right the other extreme to it is completely unabsorble let's say there is a completely dark room there's zero visibility right that agent can't have any you know information in the middle you have partial right like let's say suppose partially let you have limited visibility right let's say this particular poker game you know what you have but you don't know what other people are having when you play cards right so let's say one of the agent is also playing so it knows about what all cards it has got but randomly assigned cards to other people it doesn't know about it right so far so good autonomous driving very good is it fully observable or completely unabsorble or partially observable right I should have already told it is partially observable very good yeah we have some excesses here also we'll do that yeah example of unabsorble is there could be cases where the agent sensor failed right it is not having any percept at all it has no knowledge about what's going on right those are unabsorble right those are very extreme cases though right because that doesn't serve any purpose right the agent has no observability then what will it even do but there are cases right when your sensor goes for a toss then your agent has no let's say suppose there is you know software agent which is not able to take input right then then what would we do right it has no information about what's going on let's go on to the next one right why is it partial not full we actually that is because you are knowing only let's say what the sensors can sense at the moment but suddenly there could be another vehicle what about the car that's you know coming behind you let's say miles apart what about the signal that could change right so you don't have complete access to the whole system at any given point you only have limited view of the world right so it's partially observable yes there are sensors for it but that's limited right like I can't know the complete environment whereas in a chessboard the complete environment can be not right you get what do we mean even with sensors I can sense maybe for one kilometer not more than that right I don't know what's beyond that yeah we'll actually complete each of these and then put together we will try to some of these exercises that will be interesting right deterministic versus stochastic right meaning the next state of the environment is completely determined by the current state and the action executed by the agent for example calculator whatever we are doing here right the action we take right it is very deterministic right whereas stochastic is uncertainty as the next state for example weather prediction or robot hitting a goal in football and so on so we are now discussing about the characteristics of environment not agent right environment and how does the agent fit in there right so here we are telling about whatever the next state of the environment is that is determined by the current state and what action the agent took but there could be environments where the next state could be uncertain for example weather prediction right the the weather could change irrespective of what it is currently and what it is or what the agent is doing correct or let's say you know rains or let's say you know football and so on so let's say suppose the agent tried to you know kick the ball that is what it is doing and currently there is you know the ball is in some specific place but football itself is a stochastic or uncertain you know environment because there could be other place coming and hitting or you know things like that right or in simpler words same action leads to same results is deterministic right but same action leads to different results is stochastic right there are examples for both correct so there are these type of deterministic calculators are doing some function calls and so on you you take the same action you will keep getting the same result whereas some actions it's not in your control there are other you know environmental aspects which will be a play that is stochastic right we'll take a look at all of these and then take one full example and see all of that right what about episode e-con sequential right the agent's experience is divided into atomic episode right and the choice of action in each episode depends only on that one episode this is more like you know in your software world whenever you take a session right whatever you do that is independent let's say you give one image ask if there is a cat or not that's it right that doesn't have anything to do with the next thing that you're going to do right let's say spam email filter it can classify one email as spam or not and that's it the story is over it is very episodic within that episode the agent is perceiving doing some action and you know all that but that one episode is different from future episodes or past episodes right whereas it could be sequential also where if current decisions affect future decisions or relay on previous ones right then you are in trouble because in these cases long term planning is needed right for example let's say playing Pac-Man or let investment portfolio bought or even chess for that matter right whatever decision you take now it will impact your future moves right or whatever you are doing now is also influenced or relaying on your previous moves it's not like this example of you give one cat you know image is there's a cat or not you get the difference right a episodic or things where you do one thing independently that's it right yeah it's like context correct yeah what about static and dynamic right this is about the environment is unchanged while an agent is deliberating or thinking let's say suppose I I have to play a move now in Rubik's cube right I'm now thinking what to do me meaning I could be me I'm a human agent it could be an agent while I'm thinking what to do this Rubik's cube doesn't get automatically changed right so similarly crossword puzzle Rubik's cube etc static meaning while I am thinking to do something the environment is not changing whereas it could be dynamic also environment can change while agent is thinking for example raining right signals while driving and thinking what to do before that the environment itself has changed because of this environmental change my thinking and action also has to change let's say suddenly I was going I wanted to move past but suddenly I saw red so I had to stop right and there is semi-dynamic also meaning environment does not change with time but performance score does let's say suppose you tell chess with timing you tell how fast or you know let you make a move I will score you based on that right then environment is some way changing right because there is there is time involved in that you are now telling okay the chess board itself is not changing but my score or my performance will change based on time right so this is static dynamic and semi-dynamic finally discrete or continuous in discrete you have limited countable states right it is a clear defined perceptive action meaning let's say chess again there is finite moves right whatever it is the number of combinations are you know like millions that is a different story all the moves are finite right they are concrete discrete values right each coin can have only discrete moves also whereas continuous environments have infinite possibilities for example when we are driving a taxi it has speed it has position it has angle you know all of these are continuous variables continuous values right so if you are dealing with that type of a no situation discrete or continuous the last one are you the only one single agent an agent operating by itself in an environment multi agent presence of other agents right other agents could be anything that changes from step to step or can sense an act as slightly diverge and ask you one question in the software world we just discussed about some difference right if the single agent what it is most probably is it agent AI or is it AI agent and if it's multi agent most probably if it's a multi agent most probably it's agent AI because they're all working together they're orchestrating and they're doing a bunch of things if it's single agent most probably it's just a bot which is trained on a bunch of things it can do one thing not beyond that right very good same here right this agent is alone working whereas here there is a car manufacturing robots all of them are working together right to accomplish you know some common goals the environment type largely determines the agent design right I have a question for you now right so episodic and discrete is in the behavior discrete means the states of the agent itself right whereas episodic is the overall behavior right my past experience doesn't influence my future decisions those type of things is episodic right whereas discrete is the states within we'll see a lot more examples it'll be clear for you but before that I have a question for you the real world how is the real world yeah can we talk about each of this is the real world it fully observable or partially observable or not observable yeah the world is partially observable right if it was fully observable all of us will be you know doing a great test lies it's partially observable what about you know deterministic or stochastic life is never deterministic right there's a lot of probability even life itself is you know stochastic right so life is real world is stochastic is it episodic or sequential yeah so quickly do you get it now sequential or episodic meaning life or real world in general sequential I took some action today today that will impact tomorrow yesterday it took some decision that is impacting me today right if it was episodic I'll just forget the past restart life today not possible right real world is sequential what about static or dynamic when I am deliberating to do something is the world around me changing yes obviously right there is no stoppage of the world you might be doing some actions you might actually do something will influence my whole career my work there's some new tool coming right so while I am doing something the world is also changing so it is dynamic in what about discrete or continuous meaning the options available for me right the states that I can be in that does not discrete even in real world right it's continuous there are so many things and in real world you also have all of this you know weather climate change and all of these other realities it's all continuous and again in real world there are multiple agents you are not the only one in the world all of us are out there so it's multi-agicter this is a small table for you right for each of this read it more row wise right take a row and look at them let's say taxi driving partially observable multi-agent because there are other cars it is stochastic right it is not just you know deterministic it is sequential and it is dynamic in nature and it is continuous right similarly let's say English tutor or let's say crossword puzzle it's fully observable the very contrary to taxi driving it's fully observable it's a single agent you are alone playing that puzzle it is very deterministic right it's not you know probabilistic stochastic and so on but it is sequential correct like whatever you made you know in the puzzle it might impact you later right in the next to move and you're playing it might impact but it is static I think it's changing while you are thinking to be and only discrete in a puzzle no continuous you know values very defined number of states that can be and one of that state is a correct answer to the puzzle right any example of a non-observable environment yeah as I told that's a very rare scenario when your sensors go for a toss right but what could be an example of real world where you know the world becomes you know unabsorbable let's say so blind room is fine let's say suppose a blind person a blind person doesn't mean the world is you know unabsorbable for them they can still hear right they can still have touch right they have other sensory organs right so then it becomes partially observable life itself is partially observable of course but let's say suppose a person has multiple disabilities right exactly yeah people in coma very good right then the world becomes not observable at all right like you have no sense of what's going on right those are examples in the AI world also this is a very rare case right where the sensors have failed the actuators are failing your database is crashing you really don't know what's you know the whole context or the environment then that is not observable at all yeah if it's not observable then everything goes for a toss there's no point in deliberating any other step because it doesn't matter at all you can't take action you don't mind if it's sequential continuous stochastic or whatever it's not even observable then what do you do the only action could be to make it observable that will be the only reactive mode that an agent should get in I'm dying please help me like contact some human agents escalate things and try to make it you know at least partially observable cool activity time I have deep blue you know what is deep blue right it was a machine that defeated Gary Kaspro try to come up with this is it fully observable partially observable or what type of agent is it deterministic or stochastic is it episodic or sequential is it static or dynamic no yeah everything is still an action I mean but what is the observability there right action is fine but is it observing is not right yeah it is fully observable yeah yes I'm able to know let's go with that without a clock right but it's very deterministic right and it is static is discreet but it is sequential because what I do can actually you know affect multi-agent because I'm playing with Gary Kaspro right I'm not the only one playing there there's a human agent right what about that robo because just itself is deterministic right you don't have continuous values right all the operations are very clearly I can count all the states possible right what was deterministic right if you go back to our definition the next state of the environment is completely determined right so it's not like you know other players can completely you know like weather and traffic and so on right right what was it there was another interesting question different actions can have different results yeah of course right that's what is just all about right because it's also having the other player there right what about robot cup right robot cup you remember that game right yeah robot cup was multiple people playing that you know game so first things first very easily you can tell that it is multi-agent because they're all playing football it's multi-agent right is it fully observable no because football game like even with 360 degree you don't know you don't have complete access to every player and what they are doing and so on right what about stochastic yes it is it's very probabilistic it is dynamic in nature while I am you know playing something someone else can you know at the back of you can do something and impact the game and if it's continuous it's sequential it's one great cool second thing are we clear with if given an agent can we come up with the environments properties or characteristics again there are some exercises in the last slide right seems like an environment is stochastic it can't be yeah there are a lot of inferences I don't want to get into it that is for your exams but that's a very interesting aspect of deducing certain things in between these properties right if it is you know fully observable then what is possible and you know there are some correlations between them right so far so good all of you yeah all of you there are two three questions in the you know last slide again in this what you're expected to do you have to list like this about the environment so we have learned two different things so far one is for a given agent are you able to come up with PEA's what is its performance environment sensor and actuate that was one part of the story about the agent itself second about the agent and the environment can be list down between observability deterministic or stochastic static or dynamic you know sequential or you know what type of agent is it single or multi coming up with these are we clear with these two will you be able to do this yeah two concepts two different types of you know these are all fundamentals to design right very important cool there are questions in the exercise it's not for any marks or anything just give it a shot put it in the discussion for now we'll take a short break it's already 924 will come back at 930 and we will continue with some agent functions right there are different types of this question mark right there's an agent and a question mark what could this be right or this are also you know called as different agent types or different agent architectures we'll have a look at that so in real world settings where things are uncertain and we can't observe everything can we actually design a truly optimal agent or do we usually end up with a good solution yeah only with a good solution we don't have these you know fully optimal you know solutions they are sub-optimal solutions no no by break I mean it's a break yeah you all can actually take a break but there would be few people who don't want a break will be chatting with me I will just you know chat with them if you to put it the other way if you miss that break it is not going to impact it we check that then it is not deterministic so yeah like determinism is all about if the same action can give you the same result or different result right it is not talking about the opposite right you should not talk about different action giving different result but think in terms of does the same action give you different results or not right yeah it's not like a dice or something right where you know the same move will produce different output you get the difference or one I put a dice the action is the same I'm rolling a die today I can get to next roll I can get five next roll I can get six the same action giving different outputs whereas in a chess game that cannot happen right like whenever I do a move like if I do like a queen that's the same movement I can't every time I move when that's the move elephant is the same move so I can't have different outputs that is why it's deterministic is it making some sense or one truth but agent performance measures can be a big anchor or factor how we apply or suppose yes of course yeah that is what is our role we have to come up with what are the performance measures which one do you want to optimize for a very important study right there are multiple performance measures which one are you optimizing for sir where does memory of an agent come in place here so when you talk about agents it is externally powered right so this agent should have a separate memory and then there is a lot of other concepts around where do you keep this you know there is this context right if it is let's say episodic right do you need any memory then I mean memory of course every software needs memory but I'm talking about do you really need to have a lot of memory if it's a episodic agent an episodic agent is one which doesn't get impacted or will not impact future decision which ideally means I don't need to have any context in memory right so in those cases you actually don't need a lot of memory it's just the RAM which is working but if it's a sequential thing then you might have to play around and there is also a very interesting paper around you know memory of agents right so yeah very good yeah long term short term context and all of that but there is also a starting point to all this was a very classic paper which took ideas from the operating system world how does our operating system manage memory because we have limited RAM maybe 16 GB or you know whatever in our laptop there is a disk with let's say find a GB or one TV so how how is it managing right there's a lot of work around operating system memory right it has all this virtualization paging and you know all that so can agents also try to do something like that right can it have like a short term memory a cache memory and all of that so there's a very interesting paper I will try to you know try to post that maybe if it interests you and then all of these you know tools also started coming which can manage out of the box this lang chain lang graph whatever right what are percepts in this diagram you mean I should you know percepts is through my sensors what I'm perceiving so currently through my eyes I am perceiving that okay I should ask in questions Arun is also asking questions right so those are percepts percepts it could be a JSON or it's a bunch of things that I am getting via my sensor right sir can you explain the difference between sequential and episodic right let's consider two tasks right yeah and you give me a task I'll have to answer it and I forget about it right you give me a photo you ask you know how many people are there in this I answer you I forgot about it the next question is different right you give me an email is this you know spam or regular that's it I forget that's episodic whereas in sequential all my moves whatever I do will impact my future right and what I'm answering now is dependent on my past like for example I have built a financial bot or you know so in financial bot you you should first look at what all I've invested where I have done how's the market doing and then take a decision and this decision will again tomorrow lead me somewhere right it's impacting so these are more you know sequential so this one what was that I mean if you make a move in chess there could be okay that message has already vanished where was that episodic weather conditions are independent yeah that's a very good you know word independent right whatever action it takes if it's independent then it's episodic and if it's over time then it is sequential can we say full absorbability with a small will okay can we say for full observability environment will be small which can be covered by agent and partial will be others correct yeah that incense it is correct yeah if it's a large environment then it can't have full observability right okay I got Herman priest Westen I mean if we make a move in chess there could be different results so is it stochastic no it is not like we are talking about the move itself here not about the result right so the possible actions right just like the dice versus this right that is what we mean here we're not necessarily talking about the whole end result we're talking about that one move that one move itself cannot actually you know have different things right for example if I'm moving a bishop it can only again as you know Avina says the number of steps can vary but the move itself cannot go differently right that is what we mean by that deterministic was stochastic and not the end result of it right cool I think it's already passed yeah it's not about the result not at all yeah it's not about the result it's about that move itself the state what we are doing the action what we're doing right very good knowledge graphs is also very interesting sir is there is it corrective memory of past uh we can expire episode each decision is independent no memory of past needed yeah that's correct yeah cool now let's get down to this all of you yeah all of you get back so there are these questions exercises you can you know have a look at that and put it in discussion we can talk about it more but these are all simple things right PA specification environment specification right what type of environment are we dealing with or this agent is going to deal with right done now talking about agent functions right initially I told you that you know agent function is the one who maps percepts into action right no no no episode take and memory and so on are very different don't confuse them right we are we are talking about the environment right don't go into that memory part and so on that is very different cool yeah all of you are here you give a quick comes up in the initial slide I told agent is someone who perceives and acts perceives using sensors acts using actuator okay but what is the magic in between there is an agent here there is an environment it perceived using its sensors it got some information and now using its actuator it has to do some action good what is this question mark there can be a lot of ways in which this question mark can be filled that are nothing but different types of agents or architectures right exactly processing meaning what way should I process right there are many ways to do that right the first one is a table lookup agent right yeah do it right is the goal rational agent right initially this is what people did right in the 70s and so on when you initial this type of you know work started people kept a table like this which is called a table lookup agent in a table lookup agent I get a percept sequence or whatever I sense from the sensor it will return an action correct it could be as simple as this a function it gets the input as a percept it returns an action but how is it actually doing is fundamentally it looks at that percept in a table it basically does a lookup operation right it is as simple as a search right I have a huge list and I will go look for okay I have exactly matched this I will take this action yeah so far so good it is one of the first ways when people put this question mark into action they don't let's have all possible actions when this sends the information matches something let's output that particular action and let's do that right but there are many drawbacks correct firstly there is a huge table needed take a long time to build the table and no autonomy right because this is more like you just matching and if something you know fine you find you just do the action even with learning need a long time to learn the table entries right so this is not maybe the best possible way but this was a starting point which is a table lookup you look for the percept for your agent if something matches you take that action performance can hit you so if something doesn't match and so on then it it can't do much right it's a plain lookup then there are five types right simple reflex agent model based reflex agent goal based agent utility based agent and learning based agent okay we look at all of them one game after another right and each of them has some core characteristic okay model based means remembers a simple reflex does nothing it is again similar to the table lookup only if it will get some percept it will do an action model will remember something in goal based agent it has a name it has a goal to do in utility based it optimizes it wants to increase its utility in learning agent it improves based on lobby it's just a crux summary but let's look at each one of them this simple reflex agent we are now feeling that question mark with some things have a look at it from the environment we sensed we got the information what information did we get what the world is like now right that is what I got from the sensors or my percept that is what I have got I have a perception of the environment right I have some condition action rules this along with the current percept right we give me what action I should do now right for example like this if the status is dirty and where did this come from this came from the percept I sense that the room is dirty right then returns the else if location is a then return be right so that you can go to the be room or if I am in be go to the left room so this is more like an if fails condition right so if you see the reflex agent itself how is it working whatever percept it got it interprets that input and then it does a rule matching right using if fails condition whatever right and then it you know gives back the action and that action is what I will return and perform right so far so good how optimize and improve a different optimize this you want to improve your utility in improving you mean you are learning yeah we'll talk about it you will get it better this simple agent clear yeah so far so good I send something I have some condition action rules are a table and I use these two to determine an action it's very simple but it has its own drawbacks you already know the drawback how many if fails will I have for a big agent is a very small agent it has only few actions possible so I can write if it's but for a real agent you can't do this right so we go for from simple to model what does this know again same thing from environment there are sensors right what is the world like now you know there are condition action rules already from you know the simple reflex also but there is also these things which is about the state how the world evolves what my actions do you have all of these details in a model right you have a model and that is also guiding you right so if you see here you update this data right and you then match it and you take action meaning whatever you have sensed you are putting back into your model or your state so in this diagram it is more like episodic right so you are not bothered about keeping track of what you sensed you are just getting a sensed information you match or you do something that's it but here you are very cautious you're also putting that information into a state like what was my previous state and the state before that and so on so that will give you some idea of how the world is evolving some past data right it is going to give you and then what my actions can do you have all these information this is more model based right it's something like an aesthetic right yeah you have some more information so along with that if you also add this box that is goal based which is what it will be like if I do action a very interesting right so in a goal based agent you already have a goal to achieve right and from where that goal comes from from your PE specification you know the PE the performance part and you have already optimized that agent for doing something and there is a goal right so that goal is already fed here into what action I should do now and here since I have my model I also know that if I take some action what will it be like like what it will be like if I do an action right and if it's taking me towards the goal I will do that action otherwise I'll take another action so for basically you are trying to go towards your goal I have a goal in this inside the agent itself I have the goals given to it right and along with my model and simple reflex I will try to do that action simple now on top of that goal I also have a utility meaning how happy I will be in such a state if I do this right how happy I am I'm getting some utility out of it right meaning you want to choose the best out of it not just go to a goal right let's say I want to go from home to office that is my goal I can take different parts I'll go there but now I'm not just interested in going to the office and reaching there but I want to know which route which route will give me the best right a long route traffic frustration I'll not be very happy with that some other route which is simpler takes me faster and happy so based on if I'm happy or not I will have some utilities right that is utility based in which you are not just bothered about your goal but you are bothered about choosing the best option or the utility that will make me more happy right and the last one is a learning agent where I'm actually learning with my decisions I send something I have a critique right it gives me some feedback right I'll give an example it will be more clear the learning element is there right and from there I can go to a performance element it does something that gives me back knowledge and from this I have some learning goals coming out right I'll give you a very small example right this one let's say I have a input percept as red traffic signal the performance element get regards I put the break that is my output right I have to press the break because there's red signal now let's say the resulting state is I've already come till here I should have stopped before the zebra crossing but I've already come till here right so I get a negative critique here it's just like reinforcement very good I get a bad critic that you know what I should have stopped before this but if I did this I came till here right at 15 meters when I performed 17k Newton force I went way past this zebra crossing so I got a negative break so from the next time when I have this similar percept of 15 meters I will not apply 17k Newton force in the break I'll rather apply 15k break right and just an example just good up but you get what we mean right so based on that critic it is trying to improve right yeah so far so good no mostly the utility maximization will be goal oriented only right that is why it's built on top of it right you want to achieve the goal also but with the best possibility right yeah you should actually increase yeah you should not put 17 you should increase more force so that you can stop before good catch right so far so good yeah you can have a look at it later the critic provides feedback the generator makes the you know performance elements select suboptimal actions so that it can learn right and that learning element will select a better action right that's what we saw in this you know break example but are we clear with these five type of agents I'll recap quickly simple reflex agent has only some rules right you have a percept you match with that rule you do the action that's it right in model based agent it has some memory it has you know it keeps a model right for example driving with let's say some blind spots right so whenever you go to that part you explore that environment right that also goes into your model right so that the next time I go I have some you know information about that area right correlate with human beings are we model driven first year we are old driven in some cases yes of course we are you know match the fire it will hurt I'll not I'll take my hands right we have some simple reflexes also hard quoted within us from childhood then there is research about it is passing through DNA and all that also let's not get there there is simple reflex yes so our consensual is there okay model based agent also yes you have not explored a part of let's say Delhi you go there you explore it there is some details going into your mind right you store it so that the next time you go there it's guiding you right people tell you know it in this season summer there'll be a lot of you know crowd and Taj Mahal how did they come from right you have a model and that is also guiding you with what you perfect goal based right I hope you all are right you have a goal to reach and then you have percepts and you have you know all of these guiding along with your model it is not a hierarchy yeah this is not a hierarchy I'm just telling you how it all evolved right from simple to model model to goal utility and learning but they are not hierarchical and so on right goal based is you have a goal you want to achieve that agent wants to achieve that goal for example navigation want to go from place A to B can it take me there there is a goal to go there utility as we discussed you want to know choose the best possible like root optimization and so on the final one is learning agent where you improve with data right and then based on that what could be an example of this learning agent let's say recommendations right in recommendations you could actually learn based on what they like and so on so there are some questions model based agent can import other agent in the yeah there could be a lot of other details but we are not going into the software engineering aspect you're not bothered about how that model comes from for now right it's a black box you could build your own or you know whatever but all these agents should work in tandem to serve actual use case or not really yeah so if you have built a very small agent which is going to do only one part of thing you don't need utility learning and all that right for some actions it's only as simple also is good enough right so far so good the different types of agents will come back to this we'll revisit this later in a couple of courses also don't worry about that but this just to give you an idea that that question mark that we saw can be filled in different ways it could have only goal it could have model it could have utility would have a combinations and all of these right okay but by the sequence from reflex agent to learning agents does the time taken to act in degrees of course it depends right which one is the fastest and someone tell me which one among them is the fastest the word itself has the answer here reflex right because you're just doing a search if when condition matches you're doing that that's all there is no model referencing there is no goal you know you're not referring to the goals list you are not bothered about optimizing nothing right you just match something to it but it could is it is fast but the performance is not always guaranteed right but in table increases beyond limit yeah that's the drawback right all of these are more you know architectural decisions it could be fast but it could not be optimal in terms of the performance measure right and of course it cannot capture all the possibilities table can be beyond limit and cool so this is all one part of the story this completes the first you know module of your you know handout and let's take a quick recap and then continue right what all have we done we took a gentle introduction to the course as well as AI and the history and the exciting times we are in and we also told that we are all guided by the whole 78 year history of how AI evolved right from you know Alan Turing's Ken machines think to the workshop to all that that happened to attention is all you need right we learnt about all that then we also told that there are different you know fields that contributed right I hope you read about that there are a lot of fields from psychology computer science economics you know all of them mathematics have contributed to AI and then we told that okay contributions also their applications are enormous in almost every field AI is used these days and then we told that what is the definition of AI to answer that you need to go back to human intelligence we defined intelligence we then deliberated about our humans always intelligent and you know questions like that and then we told okay there are non-humans who exhibit intelligence dog and all that like we kept deliberating and we kept to four definitions of AI it's a very important part wherever whoever talks to you about AI those four lines should kick in which is thinking humanly acting humanly thinking rationally acting rationally all four are correct there are different schools of thought about AI and in the recent past there is consensus more and more consensus that acting rationally is a better definition we took examples we learnt about all four of them in depth and then we went on to agents we told okay the last quadrant is about building rational agents so what is that right and in between there are the small to ideas around risks and so on and you should be actually you know aware about the risks also I would love for you to explore more on those topics right no it's all a part of AI only this area yeah again that is also you know rational agent only right so we told it fine rational agent and what is an agent first of all agent is anything which can percept and act it can have sensors it can have your you know actuators then we told them what is rational agent rational agent is one someone who is trying to strive to do the best right what it can do best at the moment right intelligent rational agents and so on intelligent rational agent is someone who takes a decision to optimize what can be done best based on what all it knows so far you can't blame it later right then we told okay for building such rational agents which can act right what we have to do is we have to first know about that agent behavior what is its performance what is its actuators what are its sensors in which environment it can act you should define all that because defining that only will give you an idea about what you are going to work towards so we came up with this PEAS specification one outcome is given a problem you should be able to come up with the PEAS specification part two that environment itself has a lot of sub parts each of them actually have a subpart like performance itself is a full line of thought you can learn a lot about you know performance of AI agents that could be a different course we're not learning that similarly actuators and sensors are a very low level someone who's from like say electrical hardware background there's a lot of things there right there is should I go for ESP 32 or should I go for Raspberry Pi or should I go for this or you know which type of sensors which type of actuator right again this is not such a course but there is deliberation needed even in that but we took up environment and in environment we did a lot of deliberation that there are lot of possibilities right there could be you know like partially observable fully observable stochastic deterministic you know multi agent and episodic sequential and so on we should consider all that when we build an agent similarly for that SNA also someone who's an hardware engineer or someone who's you know they're in your organization should decide and deliberate for that right and if it's a software agent those becomes very limited right it's just input output text output multimedia and you know like if it's a software agent it has very limited number of sensors right it's only text input or voice input you know or let's say braille input or whatever and output again could be some multimedia voice or video or text so they're very limited so software engineers or an architect themselves decide for the AS and P part also right so that we discussed about those about the environment and then we told okay that agent itself you told you are going to send something you're going to act on it to optimize your performance right PAS itself has all that you get the yes you want to optimize your P working in E using A you get what I mean in PAS specification itself the word has all the details that you need right if you go here PAS an agent will work in E trying to optimize the P by using its A and it got about the context of yes right and you're right PAS would be a part of documentation and so on of course not in the release and so on because no the world need not know about it but the documentation should have it okay I'll repeat so every agent uses its yes yes yeah in E to optimize P using A is that here for everyone every agent is using yes to get to know about the input it is acting on the environment where it is deployed its goal is to increase the performance P by using its actuator in currents of the agents what would be an actuator an actuator is the you know maybe the the engine that produces the text output or image output and so on that's not the output itself but it is the agent the you know the engine that is facilitating that right for example here the robotic arm similarly you could have an image generator or it could be an LLMAP it could be some other tool itself right things like that program that is producing very good perfect so this is what we meant that you know P is is more cool right like peace you bring in peace so yeah so this is what we mean by you know PAS and environment specification and all that and we told all this is good but when you want to optimize that performance and do that action how is that agent going to do that question mark we have not solved so then we told that question mark can be many things it could be either a static you know rule based one or it could be now this will make sense right in simple simple reflex you do nothing you're just matching and taking an action in model based you do remember something that will also guiding your action in goal based there are aims or goals also within the agent which will guide towards you know what to do right and in utility based you are trying to optimize the you know it's performance and in learning it tries to improve based on the model and what is you know the critics value and all of that right sometimes the critic can be external also sometimes in this chat GPT type of bots it gives you some answer it it did this whole cycle and gave you something and you told this is not what I expected this is bad so it got a critic and it also learned something from what you now want right it will put it in its memory and you know all of this and again try to generate something and you know things like that so that is what we feel the question mark with right and that is where we are so far so good AI from AI to you know the quadrants from quadrants to you know building agents then about agents the PAS the environment all of that right optimize and improve there is a difference right so optimize it's within right but improving what we mean is it's learning right so utility is let's say for example let's say I want to you know go from home to office the same example choosing the best that is you know optimization or utility based whereas let's say a recommendation engine I improve with data right my logic itself the agent itself is improving that is learning based whereas optimizes is optimizing for the end goal that is utility based is it making some sense other here optimizing means not optimizing the agent itself it is optimizing the end result if that is what is my goal based on my you know critiques my whatever I get that is utility based I want to optimize my results whereas here in the goal base that is not it it is the you know I want to reach the goal I want to reach office that's my you know goal based agent you take me to the office I'm happy but here take me in the best possible route that is utility based but here I'm not concerned about the output itself but I'm concerned about agent itself based on the output am I improving right so that later my output will also be better you get the point right that is learning based so these are the different types I mean the field has just exploded there's not just these you know these are fundamental agent types but at a software layer there are a lot of different types of architectures for you know agent design and so on but this course is not about agent tk i right so we're not going into all those type of architectures right yes goal place utilities but you don't necessarily need to have those modules right if some people have built an agent which is not learning based it will just be goal in utility and keep working on that it doesn't have that feedback loop going back again right so we'll continue with this and there's a question we actually had so where can you find books your books and so on is not possible like books is uh you know um it's copyright right so you have to buy the book I'll not be uploading them these lights I'll be uploading it's available in you know taxila in the files folder agent tk is covered in yeah it's covered in a c for ml and ml for a c and later in your you know some other courses yeah in a c ml it's covered to some extent there is also a certification program with bits on agent tk i yeah you can buy the first book it's all covered in the first class I hope you have watched the recording the ones who are talking about books right okay it's good time I quickly show you the learning page and then go back yeah so these are you know course page in taxila if you see announcements are here there is a files folder right inside the files folder you have the cs1 slides you have the EC1 dates you have the course handout you have the plagiarism policy right after 10 30 today you will also have your session two slides book as I told it's copyright we should not be putting it here right you can buy the first textbook and now answering your next question in all my deck from today's class there will be some you know questions and you will solve those questions in this question and answer forum right you will just put that question and try to answer all others can comment reply it's more like a thread right people can keep talking about it my only recommendation would be first have a look at if someone has posted some answers then go and reply to it don't keep creating a lot of new threads because it's pointless if someone has answered already if you have also got the same just put a like or reply to that keep continuing in that one thread and don't keep creating new discussions right what is the role of section here I see that you are no not really it's it's just a placeholder yeah for this course it doesn't matter all will have the same question papers all will do a statement together all will have quiz together and so on it's just that there's a division right there are thousand students there are these many sections that's it yeah yeah you have to form and that is still not out you will be you know told when that is out Nishanth yeah cool let's get back yeah we have it 20 more minutes let's make the best use of this and then I'll leave you free for the day the next part is PSE yeah very important we be discussing round and again on these topics right okay there was some question how can we relate reaching office analogy by a learning agenda so it it knows about you know which paths have pit holes which path has you know some construction were going on and those learning will give me the feedback and my I'll update my model and my goal and utility are the same I want to reach office fast so this learning will help me right in real world you do that right you know that okay there's a flyover being constructed so till that is being completed let me avoid that so that learning has helped you right no utility based you have fastest but what if these construction happens suddenly there is a new road block right your utility has gone for a toss your fastest route might not be your fastest from tomorrow if you have a new you know road blocker like this because your environment is what is your environment in this case a slate is not fully observable but what has happened while you are deliberating while you are thinking the environment itself has changed very good yeah it's dynamic because it's dynamic your utility will not always be the correct one it might fail right so it failed there and then it learned that okay from tomorrow let me not come in this and find the next best route right things like that cool let's come back what is PSA a lot of work in AI in the initial days was all around PSA which means problem solving agent right problem solving agent is nothing but formulating a problem as a search problem and a lot of problems can be modeled as a search problem and it could be solved okay it has three steps first define the problem and its components that is a formulate step then solve the problem using search algorithms that is the search part execute the solution of fixed sequence of actions right so there's a quick you know pseudo code for this it has a percept you need to return an action but there are a bunch of things with you the problem which is a problem formulation a goal which is the goal initially it's you know null a state some description of the current world state okay what we are and sequence is an action that you can take right you got the you had a state information about the world you have a new information that is the perception that you got based on this you will update your state right if that sequence is empty right means an action sequence nothing has been done so far this is the first time you will go and create your goal right you will formulate the problem and you will start searching for that problem and if you get the sequence you will send it back right otherwise it's a failure what we mean is any problem right not any problem most problems could be modeled as a search problem right and it has five components right what is the initial state what is the possible actions that I can do or operators right successor function right if I take this operation where will I go right that is also called as a transition model goal test and path cost okay let's again you know kind of relook what this is a lot of problems not just this traffic route or you know source to destination or goal type of problem but many other problems also let's say tick-tack tour you know gameplay or you know many of these problems can be modeled as a problem solving agent search problem meaning we will start with some initial state we have a goal state a goal test is something which will test each state to see if I have already reached the goal or not and path cost is nothing but every problem has its own path right path or cost right it could be let's say the minimum duration it could be the money involved it could be you know any performance metric those becomes the cost and possible action is nothing but attack given state what all I can do and when I do an action where have I reached the successor right a function that assigns a numeric cost to each path a path is a series of actions and each action is given a cost depending on the problem a solution is nothing but this path cost plus optimal solution meaning if you reach the goal or we take some examples it will be even more clear right first of all what is a state all information about the environment is a state all information necessary to make a decision for the task at hand all information meaning we don't mean like you know fully observable we mean that whole set that you are doing in an exercise right partially observable stock state dynamic that full set whatever I know about the environment now right that is my state then what is a state space a state space is a set of all states reachable from the initial state right I am here this is my state where all can you go from here that is my state space a state space forms a graph in which the nodes are states and the arcs between nodes are actions right in the state space a path is a sequence of states connected by a sequence of action right whatever arc we draw that is an action you take one action you go from this state to this state you will take another and you go from this state to another state and that going from one state to another state has a cost in what right and it is also that path that sequence of states you went through from the initial to the goal right that is also important in some problems in some problems that's not important we look at all that later the solution of a problem is part of the graph formed by the state space from the initial state to the goal state the state space representation forms the basis of most of the i methods right we just spoke about what is a state and state space it's pretty simple it's all about the environment and where all can you go from there and how will you go by using your possible action when you take an action you will reach in a new state in that new state you will check is this my goal have you already reached what I wanted if I wanted then just calculate the cost what all was involved to come here if you have not reached the goal again try to see from your successor function where all can you go and keep doing that right so with these five components you can model actually a lot of problems into a search problem right what is problem formulation definition it's a process of deciding what actions and states to consider given a goal right of course there are unknowns about environment doesn't know what state the agent is in there are estimations of number of possible actions doesn't know the value of action so on there are also assumptions about environment right there could be observability discrete so we have learnt about all these environmental factors we can put some assumptions for each of the problem we are trying to solve right assumptions or domain expertise will guide us what are these environmental properties right under those assumptions or the domain expertise we take a fix sequence of actions right and that action should lead us to the goal what we want right search is what then a process of looking for a fixed sequence of action that reaches a goal this one right I mean initial state I want to go to the goal that sequence finding out that sequence is search and a search algorithm is a one which takes input and outputs this sequence right will take some concrete example like this this is a very simple intuitive example where there is a map right I'm in Arath the agent is here my goal is I want to go to go to go to rest I want to go here wish are rest right whatever I want to reach here can you already tell me what is my initial state and what is my goal state what is my initial state real quick Arath right I am here my agent is here this is my initial state what is my goal state goal state is this okay what are my possible actions when when I am at Arath right I can either go to Zering or I can go to CBU or I can go to Timisora these are my three possible actions at the moment when I go there I have already incurred some you know path cost and now my world has changed now the transition model and new possibilities start coming if I have gone to CBU then I can go to Faragas or you know Rimshu or if I have come to Timisora then I can only go to here I come go to right so now we are trying to formulate this as a problem solving agent right this is a map I have some given information I'm going to come up with it problem solving agents formulation initial state the agents start state which is I am in Arath right so there is this language yeah we will learn about this in later half of this course which is called prologue right it's a very English like language and you know it's predicate and so on we will come to that later when the time comes but just remember you all were right we are just telling in Arath meaning I am in Arath now possible actions it's a set of applicable actions in a given state that is from the state yes in Arath applicable actions what all I can go I can go to CBU right I can go to this Zerinth or CBU or Timisora that's what I'm telling and what is the action it is go I can actually go there right what is the transition model the resulting state of an action in a given state modeled as result right let's say suppose from in Arath I pick up this action go CBU if I do that what will happen I'm in Arath I'm telling go CBU meaning I want to take this path if I do that then what will happen where will I reach I will be in CBU correct that's what you mean but let's say suppose result of in Arath comma go Timisora there that will give me what as the result you're getting it right I'm in Arath but I'm picking up this possibility of go Timisora then what will be the end result where would I would I would have reached Timisora very good perfect goal test the moment I have gone here in CBU I will go and check is this my goal right is goal of CBU in CBU no my goal in this problem is to go to hook arrest so determines whether a given state is a goal state this is a function again right is goal if I am in book arrest the answer will be yes if I pass in CBU it is no you have not yet reached the goal again you know think from CBU where all can I go what is the you know possible actions from here I can go remain is see or father is and then I will take an action my transition will change it's one and finally the what is the path cost a function that assigns a numeric cost to each path right in the whole series from Arath to go CBU how much did I spend right I spend that 140 units this one and so it's a function so you have to keep adding till you reach the goal right writing these five things is called as formulating a problem for a piece right in the about definition many possible states the agent has many possibilities in real world correct it is in the middle of Arath it's near the airport it's in shopping center it's in a hotel right and many possible actions also are there right agent can take several actions while driving from Arath to CBU it can halt it a place it can take a detour it can turn on the radio and what not but these are all irrelevant they're all irrelevant to finding the solution or the path to book arrest so we abstract it we are not related you know giving importance to it we are just defining those five things right so coming up with these five things is formulating a problem right so for this can you quickly come up with a problem where did we define goal in this yeah the goal I told you that we have to go to book arrest yeah it should be defined a priority in action so for this problem can you come up with possible states I've already told you right there are two rooms two darts there are eight combinations simple stuff right both the room can be clean both the room can be dirty clean dirty dirty clean where is the agent right simple stuff what is the initial state any state with position of agent and dirt mentioned that will be your initial state what is action there are three possible actions left right or suck for the agent right possible states are different correct possible state is considering the whole environment and the problem what is the transition model left would move the agent to left location except when the agent is in the leftmost location obvious right when I am in this room I don't want to go to left similarly I'm in the rightmost room I don't want to go right suck would remove the right goal test is checks whether all locations are clean path cost is let's say each step costs one so the pass cost is the total number of steps we have to come up with this the designer only decides the path cost and the goal test it okay so this is another you know transition diagram we call it so this shows you that eight states initially this is the state if I take left I'll be here only if I'm in you know from here if I take right I'll go to this state if I'm in this state and take another right I can't go right so I'm in here only but if I'm in this state and if I am taking the suck operation I'll clean this dirt but I still remain here but this dirt is gone right similarly if I'm here and if I do the suck operation this dirt is gone I'm here right this dirt is gone from here if I take a left I will reach this state again from here if I take a right I'll reach here and so on so you get what we mean right so are you able to make sense of this diagram yes no this is basically mapping out the total transition of what could go on given this initial state and given this goal states right cool there is a problem for you will you know explain this and leave you free for the day this is a eight puzzle right yeah mathematical formulation like you coming up with those five things is a prop for no problem formulation I'm giving you these states this is an empty box I'm telling you this is my goal state you somehow arrange this like you put the two here then there's an empty space here basically these are all tiles you can move you know here and there you have one empty spot I want you to make this like this I want this to be empty I want one to three four five six and eight like this start state is this goal state is this can you come up with the five things initial state is this only goal state is this if you have exactly you know something like this where each tile is an increment of the next can I put it in a mathematical formula like that this tile should be one plus this this should be no three pluses whatever right you have to represent this goal state you understood right when I move that too below I will have this state when I put this forward to the left so basically here I did down operation here I'm doing left operation I'll come here if I put up operation six goes here then this will be the state if I put right it comes here then this will be the state like that you can keep drawing right this is the transition diagram or the state space diagram right but you should come up with this this is what is our motive those five things what is that initial state what is that goal state what are the actions left right up down and then what is my transition resulting thing and what is a path cost I'll give you some exercises on this also you can try to practice this right but essentially what we are trying to do is for any problem any problem is not possible let me tell you at the outset for most problems if we can formulate it like this as a graph problem right then we can apply search algorithms right you can apply a lot of search algorithms and try to go from that start to the goal and then you have solved that problem and then people will tell this is an intelligence of prayer and this is what people have been doing initially a lot of you know leave ml and all that right initially people were more concerned about given a problem how do I model that or formulate it like a search problem like this what is initial state what is goals goal state what is transition possible states and cost and then I will apply search techniques on that every search technique has its own pros and cons we will talk about all that right yes you will get yeah formulating these five things you will get right there are a bunch of these slides which we will see later you are just some basic definitions but I'll just cover this slide and then leave you free I told you that if we can formulate that any problem into this search problem then I can apply search strategies and there are two types of search strategies in general there is unsupervised or uninformed right not unsupervised that's a different you know story which will come in post medicine uninformed and informed uninformed has a lot of these like bf as df as you see sm so on and if you are from computer science background you might already know what is a breadth first search depth first search and all that yeah thumbs up if you know these at least these two UCS is another variant of digixtra only others are also some variants of these bf as df is all of you and those who don't know can you put it in the chat are there people who have no idea what is a breadth first search depth first search and so on right yeah so you people I will be uploading the data structure notes also yeah so try to read more about it right this is technically not there in this course but it forms the fundamental idea it is there in your textbook yeah I will also be giving you some example which is this right so for each of these uninformed search yeah all of you all of you back yeah bf as you see s depth first search and so on if you click on this there is an animation right it is all from your textbook only right you can actually click on that you can fast and or slower the animation and you can actually play around with it and you will be able to understand how this search works right there are a lot of materials available I will also be uploading certain things you can go through that for all the people who told and know right it's a good starting point and this I'm sure will help you this is just like you know teaching kids there will be a graph there will be a start there will be a end and you know if you can start the animation it will tell you how are these different right in bfs what happens and dfs what happens right in bfs basically you go wide right you go breadth but in depth you go all the way deep these are all search techniques they are all basic computer science this is not anything to do with AI right so watch these animations right this is not something that is there for an exam or therefore this course but it's a very important aspect of the course why this is this later okay uninformed search means there is no additional information about states beyond what is provided in the problem right they use only information available in the problem and they try to go towards the goal but in informed right strategies that know if one non-cult state is more promising than another is also called heuristics right I'll end you with this one slide that all the methods all that we see here in this slide right that is uninformed search techniques which is basics cs they are very slow or they are blind searches meaning they don't have any other extra knowledge they just start working but if you start giving it some extra information right then that is informed that is if you add more guidance or heuristics then that becomes informed search this card is beautiful right let your intuition guide you you are what you have been looking for at very philosophical but in a lot of times our intuition helps right that is what is this in informed search you are giving it some intuition not knowledge nirage this is a very important difference this intuition is not always correct we get it right the informed search algorithms are not always optimal there are some algorithms are optimal but this extra information that we provide that heuristic need not be always correct it is just an intuition but at least an intuition is there you are not blindly doing some search but you are guided by some extra information there are a bunch of informed search searches for example there is this best first search a star a o star and so on and in this course we will be learning this so in the next class come prepared with uninformed a lot of people already know that but if you don't know watch those animations textbook covers all of this so if you are interested you can also have a look at it but we will get started in the next class with best first search and a star and we will keep going forward right cost based search would be counted so as long as you have extra information right if there is a graph given with its cost then that is not extra information that is the problem itself right apart from that if there is some extra cost you know tricks given to you then that is a heuristic and that is informed right so me and she also asked her one question put data so yeah I'll do that yeah I forgot about that but let me do that today so these are all a part of the data structures course not all of them but at least BFS and DFS but for all the ones who put a no right my only request is watch these animations you should be able to get a hang of it and if not just try to you know google about this and also in the slides and textbook these are there not slides meaning the data structures course slides and you should be able to get a hang of it but remember this is not a part of this course you will not get any exam questions and all that but you should know this difference right you should know this difference that these are all just working on the problem but what we will look at in the next class are informed search where there is some extra info with that I'll leave you free for the day but after this slide there are these exercises as I told right there are a bunch of these slides where you need to come up with the environment you need to come up with the PEAS specification and so on the slides will be there in tuxilla and I'll meet you the next Sunday yeah we have three more minutes I'll stop the recording and be here for three minutes for the ones who want to be