Transcript: ACILecture3.mp4
============================================================

Go to work around. Working onID, We'll wait for a couple of minutes and then we'll get started. So how are things? Your assignment group formation is going on and I see that good percentage of people have done that and for the others who have not done that, please do that. I'd also made an announcement. So if you have wrongly been added to a group, if you want to change and so on, just follow that protocol. Just try to, so jatangam and also keep me in copy and we'll get that done. So let's start this before our next class. All of you should have your groups because the week after that, we will start with the first assignment. It's on where around the week of May 20th, your first assignment starts. So within the next class, let's sort the assignment groups. Yeah, it's for the assignments. Your assignments are going to start. So your assignments will be done in groups. So that's why we need the group. Hi, good morning. Why we need to do the assignments in group? Okay, that is, there are plenty of reasons. First is peer learning, right? We don't want you to alone do. And in most companies, you are not the only person in a company. There are situations, but that's very highly unlikely. We work as a group. So we want to do as a group and there'll be peer learning. And the second is the problem statement given will not be trivial. So if you were to do it on your own, you would end up spending a lot of time, which is, you know, for a working professional not so good. So if five hands come together, maybe you can divide and conquer and that's the plan. So because of these two reasons and there are also a selfish reason that for evaluations. Right. So simply put, there are a thousand plus students and evaluating every assignment running the code, testing it for all cases. It's simply not scalable, right? So is better to have a larger problem. So always a group and write evaluated it. So all of these come together. Yeah. There are a lot of groups which to choose randomly can we choose? No, that is what I had posted an announcement. Please refer to my announcement. First, you know, try to ask your friends and you know, try to decide and then go join. And don't just randomly get joined. If you see that there is a group with like, let's say two people, three people, then talk to them, right? So you can check their name, talk to them. If they are okay, you're okay, you're all okay. Then you can join the team. And if the deadline for this is 15th, right? And by 15th, if people have not chosen their groups, then we will randomly post you in some groups, right? Yeah. Nireesh, as a question, so things are going good. Whenever you get some time, please can you spare five and minutes to guide us on the, yeah, forget about the exam. Yeah, they are, you know, just there for the sake of it. And before the last, you know, maybe in the eighth class, before their exams, I will talk about exams for maybe like 15, 20 minutes. And till then, let's just forget that that part exists. Yeah, there's a lot of literature that says that, you know, they do more harm than good. So there's no, you know, point in discussing that. But I do understand. It's our important exams are important. So before your mid-sem exam, which is in the eighth class, I'll talk about exams. I'll also be uploading a sample paper. Similarly, before the final exam, we'll discuss about the exam. I'll also be posting a sample paper. Will there be any special? Yeah, it'll be provided in a mission in your assignment PDF, right? You will get a PDF, which is of five to 10 pages. That will be a question, right? And different groups will get different questions and all that different topics. But that PDF will explain everything, right? What's the assignment? What's the deliverable by when? How you should do it? You are a group. So how we will be, you know, evaluated, everything will be available in that PDF. Yeah. Is it 24? Let's give it one minute and then we'll get started. Herman Fried says, oh, I was so great. So yeah, yeah. So that's why we will talk about it. Yes, yes, I will do that. Yeah, I'll do that right after the eighth class. And as I told this course has undergone a lot of changes. So some past papers might not be really relevant. So many topics have been removed. Some new topics have come in and so on. So I will do that at the eighth class and maybe after the eighth class before your exams. And usually the easier exam is on the second week of the exams, yeah, not right away the first week. So I'll get some time to prepare. And my only advice would be don't get too boggled down by these sample papers and exam in a preparation. Just enjoy the course and you would do good. If you go by these patterns of, you know, there's these papers, I'll solve them and I'll perform better. And there is no correlation there. It does more harm than good. So my advice would be to just attend all the classes, explore more on these topics and you would fare well in the exams. And if not, there are other options like you have the quiz, you have the assignments, you have the final exam, they are all of these also. Yeah. I'll do that. Definitely I'll upload that. We'll also talk about the exam when the time comes in the eighth class. We do that for the mid-sem. Cool. I think it's good time first today. It started already five minutes. So we'll have a quick recap of what we did in the last class and then continue from today. So I remember most of you attending the last class. So I put in the chat, what did we really do the last class? Anything that's top of your mind? What did we really learn in the last class? PAS, okay, very good. PAS specification, right? Performance measures, PAS, that was in types of environment, very good, very good. So it's not just about the agent specification, but also about the environment, right? Is it partially observable? It's a static or dynamic. It's all the different features of the environment also, right? And then we also learn about the different types of agent. So if you remember, we started with PAS when we went to a lot of these types of environments and then we also took some activities. We spoke about what are the different types of agents themselves, right? We learned about them like simple reflexive, module based, goal based, utility learning and all of that. And then we also got started with PSA. PSA was all about problem solving agents and we told that in initial days of AI for a lot of years, people were modeling a real world problem into a search problem. And once you model it into a search problem, you can apply some search techniques and then try to go from the state to the goal state, from the initial state to the goal state and then you have achieved it. And then people will call it artificial intelligence, right? Because the algorithm or the system has automatically recognized it has taken you to the goal, right? So this is what we were doing. And we told that for solving a, you know, or firstly, we left to understand that problem, right? And to do that, we told that we will have these five components, right? Whatever question is given to us, we should be able to come up with these five things. Okay, what is the initial state in this problem? What is the goal state or goal test? And what are the possible actions from the initial state? And if I take that action, where will I go and what will be the path cost, right? For example, we took these, you know, in this particular graph, if I'm in Arad, I have to go to bookers, what all I can do, right? This is the initial state, this is a goal state, this is the path cost. And if I'm in Arad, where all can I go, right? In Arad, you know, go to these and, you know, is goal all this. Also, given other example of this, you know, the toy cleaning problem, the different states of it. And we also started with this problem, where if this is the start state, this is the goal state, then can you represent those five properties, right? This is the start state, this is the goal state, this itself is those two properties. One is what are all the transitions possible. So can someone tell me in this problem, what all transitions are possible? I can only top down left, right? So nothing else is I can't randomly take this, have in and put here or, you know, things like that. I can only move to five, six or three, which is down left, right? Or up, right? So things like that, if I keep doing, I'll get this state space and these type of, you know, putting these five things that is called formulating a problem. So already you have a couple of exercises given if you remember in the last class. And there are from the topic so far, from your example point of view, since the topic came up today. And this is PES, right? I mean, give you a situation, ask you PES, right? Or give you an environment and ask you to judge about that environment. Okay, you're playing chess, explain me the environment, right? So all of those, you know, different aspects of environment you should be able to, right? I mean, give you a situation and ask about which agent architecture is best suitable? Is it reflexive alone enough or you should do one goal oriented or utility or so on? And similarly, the next type would be maybe if I give you a problem, are you able to formulate it with these five definitions, right? So five meaning these five things, right? What are the initial state? What is the, you know, action, transition, goal and path are you able to do that? Right? So they are also probable type of, you know, learning outcomes that you should have had by now. Next one, we started with the search techniques and told that if I model a problem as a search problem, I can use some of these techniques, right? Broadly, there are two categories of search. One is uninformed and one is informed. As it told, uninformed was self-study, but we will still do a quick recap today, but I hope you have gone through these animations. Can you give a thumbs up if you have not gone through them? That's completely fine. Yeah, if you have not gone through them, you can give a thumbs up at I will highly recommend that you go back and, you know, have these, you know, animations sorted. This is not in the course. You will not get exam questions from this, but this forms the basis, right? Informed search is, you know, a better variant of uninformed. So you will have to know these first, right? So watch these animations and this is where we had stopped. I will quickly talk about BFS, UCS, DFS and let's say iterative deepening today. Maybe quickly maybe in half an hour and then we will go to the informed search algorithms. Right? So that's what we did in the last class. So let's get started with today's topics. Right? So welcome to the third contact session for artificial and computational intelligence. We've already seen what is for problem formulation. We look at uninformed and informed search algorithms today. Right? So the first one is BFS, right? All of these that we're talking for the first 30 minutes is uninformed, right? Firstly, what do we mean by these two? What is uninformed and what is informed? Right? So we had also briefly discussed this in the last class, but all the algorithms which come under uninformed means they're uninformed. They don't have any information apart from the given problem, right? By given problem, we mean those initial state, goal state and the transition. Basically, this type of a graph, even with some path course, whatever is given, only if that problem they have in hand and they are supposed to do a search. They don't have any other extra information apart from the problem. They're all uninformed, right? BFS is one of them and the name says, breadth first order is more cautious in the sense that it examines the paths with length I before I plus one. It uses a queue in order to do the visit. So for example, if you take this particular tree, right? Three or graph, mostly we will be dealing with graphs in this course, but you can also argue that, you know, a tree is also a type of a graph and all that. Yeah, so that's all data structures. But let's say suppose I start with this node A, right? And let's say suppose F is my goal, right? I want to go from A to F. How will BFS do this is BFS is breadth, meaning I'll go from A to B, right? And then I'll go from A to C. I know that I can go from, you know, from A, I can reach B and C. I'll cover this level, right? So A is at level zero, B and C are at level one and it still run at level two and so on. I'll cover one level fully and then go to the next level, right? And how is it really being done? It is done using a queue, right? For example, right? So this is a queue for me. Initially, I have my initial node, which is A, right? I'll put it here. I want to explore a, meaning where all can A take me? I remove this and check who all can or where all can A take me. Where all can you take me? He can take me to B or he can take me to C, right? And this is again, the order is not really important. One could also write it as CNB and that's not wrong. Yeah. And now I will, you know, go ahead with B. I will remove B and see where all I can go to be. So we can take me to DNF. I'll add them again into the I know queue, right? DNE and then I will remove C and so on, right? Where all can see technique, see can again take me to F G. So now again, I will try to remove D. D cannot take me anywhere. Then I will remove E. Then I will remove F. When I remove F, that is when I realize that I am in the booth. Right? This is fee for perfect. All of you write. So in simple, in this, you know, queue, if you see, we first covered all of them in one level. Before it's children game, right? That is why this is called breadth for ordering or in other words, if you see that traversal of this, it will look something like this. Right? So you cover one level, then go to the next level, then go to the next level, then go to the next level, and so on. An even better example is what is there in your text, something like this, right? So you start with this and then you go to B, then you go to C, then you go to D and so on, which means you generate all nodes at a given depth. Right? This is at zero, one and so on before proceeding to deeper notes. You cover all that, you know, who are there in that one level? Something like this. Initially started with B, you completed B and C, and then you went to B, right? So initially here, you are at C, then here at D, you'll complete this, then you'll go to E, then F, G, you know, after completing G, you'll come to the next level, H, right? Here, this orange color means I have covered them and the gray ones means they have been generated, but they have still not been explored, meaning I've not gone there currently in this graph, I'm at H. And once I explore it, it's, you know, it can be put in orange, you can go to this, I, and so on. In simple, all that we are telling is, cover all the nodes in a level and then go to its children. So far so good. All of you is this search technique here. Yeah, but this will take time. Yeah, there are a lot of, you know, things about it and there are, you know, there is no black color. In this, you know, I just, you know, given example that this might be the goal. So if you have reached the goal, then you can stop there, right? But it simply means that, you know, once you have covered something, you can put it in orange. In this case, my H was the goal itself. So I stopped there and I did not go further. So this was just an example to tell that I don't need to go further because my goal is reached. That's it. Right? So in simple VFS, of course, it has its own problems. It is uninformed. Given a graph, we have started to just, you know, start working and all that it does is, it goes level by level. It explores all the nodes in one level. For example, in this case, all DEFG before going to its children notes and so on. This is what we do, right? And one of the problems, so there is a lot of background around it. Okay, so you can read about it later in the text, but as I told, these are all not there. But let's just discuss one problem with this, right? What if you have a lot of children for, you know, A or let's say B or one, right? And the goal is somewhere here in, you know, let's say H. Let's say this H was the goal. But let's say A itself has 2000 children. Right? So what will happen then? By the way, that is called as a branch factor. How many children a node has? In this case, A has only two children. So I came from A to B, I explored B, then I came to see, I explored C. Then I came to its children and eventually I know I'll come to H. But if the node A has 2000 children, first I will have to go through all of that 2000 and then only I will come to this D. So far, so good, all of you. Yeah. Yeah, anything can be a final goal. It's all in your problem formulation, correct? Initial goal, final goal. Yeah. So that's a problem. BF first, the problem is if that branch factor is more, right? And I'll have to go through all that branches, then we can come even to the next level. And what if that goal is somewhere here? So I'm wasting a lot of time in that full exploration of all the other siblings of this nodes. That's one problem with BFS, right? So that's why you also have another technique. So they're all not, you know, one is better than other. They're all suitable for some problems. That's more of a data structures, you know, we have to look at it. One is not the better than other. All of them are equally bad, but they can all be used in different situations for our benefit. Yeah. Depth for search. This is also another, you know, type of search technique. In this, we are trying to visit them in a more aggressive order. What was the word used for BFS? Does someone remember? I used a word in that double quote. What was it? BFS is more cautious, right? We're very cautious. We complete one level and then go to its children and so on. But depth for search is more aggressive. What does it mean? It will catch hold of one path. It will go as deep as possible. When it realizes it cannot go any further, then it'll again come back to another, you know, path, right? It maintains a stat to do this. So in the same graph, if we were to go and do DFS from A, we will go to B. From B immediately, we will go to D. And at D, we will realize we can't go any further. So then I'll go to E, right? Because B was already, you know, explored. Then at this part, I'll go to C and from C, I'll directly go to F. And from F, I know I cannot go anywhere. So I'll go back to G and then to H. Meaning I catch hold of a node and then go as deep as possible, right? You see this example, it'll be more clear. It the same graph that we used even for BFS, if you see, there's a very clear difference, right? Starting point was the same. Till here also it is same. But in BFS, after B, I went to C, meaning I wanted to complete this level. But here in DFS, from B, I directly jumped to D. And from D, I will jump to H. You get the point, right? So I'm going as deep as possible, catching hold of one path. And when you realize I can't go any further from H, that's when I explore this I and I realize that okay, from I also I cannot go anywhere else. There's nothing, you know, below I, there's no children for I, it's a leaf node. So I'll then jump to E. And then from E again, I know that I can go to you know J and then to K and so on. So likewise it progresses, right? So it catches hold of something very deep. And as long as there is a path, I'll go there aggressively. And then I'll try to stop there and again backtrack that is DFS, right? In DFS again, what could be the other problem? Let's say suppose in this case, my C was the goal. What really happened? When will actually reach C? I'll reach here, right? But in this case, let's surface this D also had a child H, H also had a child and so on, right? This is called a skewed tree by the way. There are a lot of children in this direction. I'll get in the loop, right? I'll start exploring this. I'll keep going as deep as possible, but my goal was actually C. You get the point, right? Opposite of BFS in BFS, I had something here, but I kept on exploring the branches. So I wasted time here also. Let's say suppose my C is the goal, but since this is DFS, I catch hold of B from B I go to D, from B I go to H, from H there were other children. I kept on going in that direction. And only when I reach that leaf node, when I cannot go any further, I'll again come back and you know, eventually come to see that's also a problem. So here it is not a branch problem, it's a depth problem, correct? So that is all about BFS, right? And both of them have their own benefits, right? We cannot discard them, right? We cannot choose, we will not be choosing any of those nithin. We'll actually go to more advanced algorithms, which are informed algorithms, but each of them have their own benefits also, right? Let's say suppose the graph is small, then nothing of this really matters, right? They're all going to be the same, yeah? And they can also be used for some particular applications, exactly, that's this slide, right? For example, finding a path in a graph, you want to find many solutions in this particular, you know, we can use BFS. There's a concept in graph theory called bipartitions, right? Now you can go check about it if you don't know and for these problems also you can use BFS. But depth first search can also be used very quickly to find a connectedness in a graph, right? In this example, I want to know if Sonanda and Mukesh are friends or not. How I can do? I can do DFS, right? From Sonanda I'll go as deep, which is Harish, right? And then from Harish, can I go anywhere? No, I cannot go, right? So from Sonanda, I'll try to go to Dev. From Dev, where can I go? From there, I can go to Janita, from Janita, I can go to Mukesh, which means that Mukesh and Sonanda are connected. Is this example clear, right? So DFS is more intuitively better, right? Because I can catch old off two of that, right? So I ask Sonanda and Mukesh, are they connected or not? Are they friends or not? You catch old of one of them, you do a DFS, meaning as deep as possible, you try to go. And in that path, if you get that other person's name, they both are connected. Other ways they are not, right? So it is more simpler. So and similarly, there is something called as a topological start in, you know, sorting techniques. And that also you could do with just DFS and it will give you always the topological ordering. These are just two examples. There are a lot of things that can be done with these and I would love for you to know when I will look at these, right? Cool. What about the next one? These are pretty common in any data structure scores and someone had asked, I have also uploaded that, you know, material. If you go to the file section, you can find the data structures, materials of my course. Yeah. Have a look if it interests you. But don't get too much into all that because that's not even this course. If you lack that knowledge, if you're not from a CS background, you have no clue of these, then have a look at those materials. Otherwise, you can conveniently skip that whole thing. Cool. These are two very fundamental search techniques. Yeah, more than I should read. So the next one is UCS. This is not pretty common. Not everyone even was done at data structures course, might have studied it. Let's quickly have a look at it. Right? Uniform cost search is also called as cheapest first. And here what we do is it is actually BFS only, but with costs. Right? Instead of expanding the shallowest node, UCS expands the node in with the lowest path cost, GFN. And because of this factor, always when we put something into that queue, we should immediately sort that queue also. Otherwise, we will get misled because there might be something in the front of the queue, but its cost is more. Right? So we want to again and again, sort it and then pick the first one from that. Sorting the frontier, frontier means whatever is in the front of the queue is important. And goal test is applied during expansion, right? Not during the, you know, when we generate the new nodes. So for example, in this case from A where will I go? I'll go to B, right? And since this is BFS plus, you know, cost involved, the moment I put A in the graph, I'll also have my B and C with their cost 1 and 5. I know that from 1 and 5, this is more promising, this is smaller. So I'll take this route. I know 2 and 6 are there. I'll again sort them and put it in my, you know, queue and so on. Basically, I will consider these weights also. I'll give you a quick example. It'll be even more clear. Let's consider this small example. I'm initially at CPU. This is my initial state. My goal state is book arrest, right? And there are a bunch of, you know, intermediates, their cost, all of them is there. Initial state and goal state is no. What is my current state? I mean, CPU, how is the queue looking? The queue is empty now. I have nothing to expand. I'm just here. Where all can I go from CPU? I can go to, you know, reminiscu and fagoras, right? That is what it generates. Many, I can go here. And if I go to reminiscu, it would have taken me 80. If I have to go to fagoras, it will take me, you know, 99. Yeah. So, so good. And these two are already in sort of order. So I'll put it in my frontier, right? I'll put it in my queue. In the same order, I'll put like a graph. I mean, in sorted order. Now I'm going to explore this first one, right? I'll remove this one. And I'll ask where all can I go from this one? I can go only to pitus T. And how much that would have costed me, right? That have costed me 80 plus 97, right? Waits are the actual kilometers, right? We have, you know, actually measured the miles of kilometers and it's coming from actual empirical data, Prashant. Yeah. 80 from 97 is 177. I'll add this also into the queue. Where will I add it? This got already removed. I've already explored them. And I came to know that from here, I can go. So this is removed. Only fagoras is there. 99. Pitus T is there 177. Right? They're again in sorted order. So I will now again explore fagoras. That is the front of the queue, right? Where will fagoras take me? He can also take me to Bucharest. It will take me to 11. 2 11 plus 99 is 310, right? So I will again add this to my queue. Because I know from I can go to Bucharest from Fagoras, but I have not gone there actually. I just know that. So it is a goal state, but we don't test during generation. Right? So I'll add this Bucharest here. So what all will be left in the queue? Can someone put it in the chat? Fagoras got removed. Because when I explored fagoras only, I asked where all can you take me? He told I can take you to Bucharest. So I added that 99 with this 2 11. And I generated Bucharest. So now who all will be there in the queue? And in what order? Yeah. Pitysti will be there. Koma Bucharest, right? So far so good. Reminiscy will not be there because we already explored him. From reminiscy only we came to Pitysti, right? So we have Pitystian Bucharest with their own cause. So where all can Pitysti take me? Right? He can take me to Bucharest in one, not one. Already I had spent 177. So 177 plus 101 is 278. He'll also take me to Bucharest. This is also more of a frontier. So I'll have to go to my frontier. I have to add this. Right? But in QP should be there. Yeah, P is already there. So now I'll again add my Bucharest. I'll remove P now because that was a friend. I explored him. He told me I'll also take you to Bucharest in 278. So both Bucharest are there in this. And among 278 and 310, 278 is the best. So I will now expand Bucharest. I realize this is my goal. So I have that I reached this type of searching is called uniform cause search. I'll repeat what we did. We started from the initial stage. We kept asking where all can you take me and their cause. And that I put in a queue in the sorted order of their weights. Whoever was small, I removed it from the queue. I explain it in where all can you take me now? Right? I first put reminiscence for the rest and their cause. 80 was the smaller one among them. I told okay, I'll remove you from the queue. Now tell me where can you take me? He took me to Pithusti, but he told it will take me 97 already. He spent 80 so 80 for place 97. I put that with Pithusti, which is 170. And Fagoras was already there in my queue. So now between 99 and 170 177. Fagoras is lesser. So I removed that Fagoras and asked where can you take me? He told I also take you to Bucharest already spend 99. This is 211. That is 310. Add that 310 Bucharest also into my queue and you keep going that. Right? We will wait till we reach that Bucharest actually. Right? So when we reach to the goal, we will wait for the best path. That's right. Yeah. So far so good. No, we are not using a priority queue. We are just using a normal queue, but sorting it. Right? But you can also do that. Yeah, priority queue. Also, if you do always you will get the minute the start. You can implement it using a mean heap. Yeah, but let's not go into all that because there are students here. It's not you know, you get to know what heaps and all that. But you're right. At the end of the day, you can use any data structure, but this should be a sorted order. You may be directly inserted in a sorted order or maybe just you know, user priority. Right? Wates are computational costs or how? Yeah, these are actually some natural phenomenon. Right? Maybe it could be the kilometers or it could be the fair take and not you know, things like that. Right? Yes. If we remove the previous node, how will it remember the path at the cost? No, we will actually store it and keep it. We will be removing. I mean only from this queue, right? That wherever we have taken that path, we will already store it and keep it. Right? It's just that I'm removing that from the queue, not completely. Right? I will always you know keep a track of where all I came and that will be stored in my, you know, final path cost variable. Right? I'll have that. Right? Please cost is probably of course depending on the problem. Right? If I want to reach in the lowest cost, this is preferable. Right? Let us suppose I have a graph with, you know, maybe the points or money that I have taken and so on. I want to maximize that. Right? In some problems, maximization can also be a, you know, goal. Right? What is there is a branch from it? You will consider that also that some also will go into this queue. Right? We will keep doing this. Right? This is uniform cost search. Here also remember you were given this graph and these, you know, weights. Maybe that we used. We did not have any extra information. Right? So uniform cost search at the end of the day is nothing but, you know, you are, you are using BFS plus this costing like, you know, sorting is what we are doing. And as you know, your friends says this memory usage is more complexity is more and so. Right? Okay. So far we have learned about BFS, DFS and UCS. Right? Yeah. What about the next one? I trade of deepening search. What is this? I trade of deepening. So do you all remember those two problems that we had in BFS and DFS? Yeah. Yeah. There's some question. So instead of two, if this was 150, yeah, you will keep exploring. You will actually just go with this logic of add the sum, put it in the queue. Whoever is lowest, remove them, explore them. You'll keep doing that till you are in a goal. Right? That's pretty much. Yeah. So is it optimal or not? Is it a different question? Optimal means will it always get me the lowest cost in this is not a question. Right? So far we have not even gone into that discussion. We're talking about it from the start note will you take me to the goal note? And if we consider these costs and sorted and good, that is uniform cost search. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Two queries I had asked you about BFS and DFS. BFS has that problem of branch factor. If there's a lot of branches, then I'm actually, you know, going on exploring that branches, but my goal could be somewhere in the next child and wasting time memory and, you know, space and time. The opposite of that was in depth for search where my goal could be somewhere in the breadth, but since I am more aggressive, I'll catch old of one path. I'll keep going and I might actually, you know, again, waste space and memory and I might not reach the goal. Right? Or I will reach the goal and it's already to, you know, late. It's not optimal. So that is where we have this techniques of iterative deepening search where I will be up playing my BFS only, but slowly. Right? What do you mean by that you will understand it a minute? Initially, I put a limit as zero. I consider there's only one note. I will explore him. Is this the goal? No, this is not the goal. Okay. Let's increase the limit to one, meaning it's children. So it has its children. So from A, I will go to B, right? Is this the goal? No, this is not the goal. So let's go to C, right? Is this the goal? No, this is not the goal, right? So now let's increase the limit to two, right? So now you will understand this better. From A, we came to B. From B, where did we go actually? This is actually up playing DFS only, right? So from B, I went to B, from D, I went to E, from E, then I realized that, okay, A, B, D, E are not the goals. So I came to C, right? So C, I checked, okay, this is also not the goal. So I came to F, and then I came to, you know, G, and G also was not the goal. So now what I'll do? I'll again increase the limit. So I'm getting this point. We are actually up playing DFS only, but I traitively. We are telling, okay, if that whole graph is given to you, what you will do? You will go from A to B, from B to D, from D to H, and from H to I, and you'll keep going there, and you will get stuck in that loop. And what if this C was the goal? So I'm telling, I'll show you the graph partially. I'll hide the graph for you. First I'll show you only limit zero, and then I will show you the first limit, then the second, and so on, like this. So I'm applying DFS in a more iterative fashion so that I don't get into that worst case where I keep going in that one direction, and I'm lost there. I don't want to do that, right? This is iterative deepening search. When you think of something similar that we can do for branches, is that possible? In this case, what we did? We did DFS in an iterative fashion, right? DFS only we are going here, right? But I'm showing the graph partially only. So I will complete till here, I'll come to E. I'll not get stuck in this loop of, you know, keep on going. There is a path here, there's a big graph, but I'm slowly, children by children, or level by level, I'm applying my DFS. Can you come up with the case where we can apply BFS also like this? Yes, right? And that'll, what will that be called? That'll be called iterative lengthening search, right? In each iteration we are visiting nodes again, no, not really. We're not, I'm just explaining this for your, you know, diagrammatic view, just to tell you that we are doing DFS, but in a more controlled fashion. It is DFS only, right? And, what's that? Don't get confused. This is DFS only. But we are just tackling that problem of DFS where if I give you this big graph, right? Imagine there's a very big graph and, you know, what will DFS do? It will catch old of A, it will go to its child, it will go to its child, it will go to its child, left child, left child, it will keep going. But what if my goal was this C or my goal was this F? I'm unnecessarily keep on going there. And at some point I'll realize that, you know, there's no more children and then I'll come in eventually, I'll come here. So I don't want that. So what I'm trying to tell is, I'll show you the graph partially. I'll show you only till this or only till this. You apply DFS in this. If you find that none of these people are your goal, then I'll slowly show you one more level of children. Go do DFS there. If you don't find any of them as goal, then again I'll show you one more level and so on. So I'm doing the DFS search so that I don't go into that worst case where I keep exploring in one direction and without others. Is this clear? Is this idea clear for everyone? Is this a smart way of doing things? Still same issue in case we have 2000 children node for no, it's not the same case right with them. That's the whole point because solely level by level I'm showing them. Similarly, if you say there is a 2000 branch here and if you want to do BFS, right, then what I'll do, I'll do iterative lengthening. Meaning I'll only show partially this part. I'll do BFS on that. Then if nothing of the goal is coming, then I'll show one more and so on. Right. How do we maintain this level? Yeah, I mean, it's a graph is technically represented using many ways. It could be done using an adjacency list or an adjacency matrix and so on. So let's say suppose we are using a matrix, right? Then only partially I will show the matrix. I'll hide those, you know, things and only small regions of the matrix I will show. I mean, by show, I mean, we'll apply DFS only to that part and if no goal is found, I'll expand and so on. Great. So there's pseudo code and all that available for you and yeah, we have a copy. The matrix itself is the copy, right? That's the way you represent a graph. We are not deciding any limit. We are just incrementing the limit, right? First we are in zero. A was not the goal, increase the limit. ABC was not the goal, increase the limit. So slowly keep increasing till you find the goal, right? You can hit the worst case situation in this as well. Of course, see, everything has a worst case. Right. There's no problem at all. Every case, any algorithm has a worst case, right? But this is at least not as bad as the regular BDFS. Similarly, iterative lengthening will not be as bad as the regular BFS, right? But some, you know, guardrails you have put in it is empirically better than the usual DFS in BFS. Yeah. Will it be using a more memory? No memory wise also it is the same only just that we are exploring them in a more controlled fashion, right? Even in a regular graph also at the end, all the notes are there in the memory. Here also it is there. But in a more controlled environment, we are exploring it. Right? That's the whole point. Right? As I told, it can be modified to explore uniform cost or BFS in other words, which is called iterative lengthening. Right? You could do that also. Right? If it goes level by level, then it doesn't have to go at the root level every time. Yes, correct. So in this diagram, I'm actually showing you like this because I want you to understand how this works. Right? But in reality, we don't want to every time, you know, keep doing this, you know, again start from A, again start from, you know, BNC. For example, in this stage, I have already visited ABC. I know none of them are my goal. So in my next diagram, I'll technically start from the child of this, you know, B. But in my diagram, I will I'd have shown you that, okay, you started from here. None of these are goals you came here and so on. It is just for you to understand that when my limit is to I'm exploring one level for their children. That's it. It doesn't mean I'm always again and again starting from root. Yeah? So it starts from this place on right? Based on level limit, it will do DFS then BFS. So I'm overcoming the limitation of you're not fully overcoming as your friends told in this also, it might happen. Let's say suppose it's a big, big graph in 2000 or 3000 depth in the branch factor of 1000, you're having that, you know, goal, then you can't do anything. Like then even after using this, you are ending up exploring all of that. At least it is more controlled and it is not as worse as the other. That is what we can click, right? How can we figure out what algorithm should be chosen for a problem? Is there any state for way? No, there is no such doubt. There is no such easy way. And that is why algorithms themselves have started to learn also, right? We will learn about all that in the later part of the course that they will figure out and so on. But there are some intuitions at least for BFS, DFS as I told. So let's say suppose you are solving a maze problem. Kids play this maze, right? There's a rat here. There's a food here. You'll have to make that rat reach that food. So for that, which is more applicable, do you think? Is it DFS or BFS? From that rat will you explore all the parts and then keep exploring all the parts? Or will you try to go as deep as possible till that food? You'll do DFS, correct? So DFS is inherently more suitable. It's not BFS. If you try to again go back to that game, you will understand that you will take a path that child will start taking that right to a place. It will go get stuck. Okay, there's no more path here. So what should I do? I'll erase here and I'll take another path that's technically DFS, right? You went as deep as possible. You could not go any further. So you came back and took another path. That's DFS. So BFS is not suitable in this problem. Not suitable meaning you can still use it, but that's not optimal. DFS is more suitable here. Right? Just need to say so unknown depth, large tree looks ideal. It's perfectly exactly. That's the whole point. Right? Perfect. So now let's stop this discussion on uninformed. Again, my only advice please go back to that animations and play around with that. Right? Put your own input. Try to you know see how that BFS and DFS are exploring. How the UCS is exploring? How this iterative deepening is going on. Try to explore that and that will help you as it told. It's not from an example into view, but these form the basis of you know some of these traditional AI techniques. So you'll have to understand that. Go to that. Now we'll move on to informed search. What do I mean by this? First things first all of these methods are slow. Whatever we discussed what all we discussed DFS DFS UCS and iterative deepening or iterative lengthening all of them are slow or in other words they're all called as blind searches. Right? Why? Because you are just given that problem and that problem could have weights, nodes, whatever. You have that initial goal state all of that. You're just working on that. You don't have any extra information. What if you have that right? Let your intuition guide you. You are what you have been looking for right? All this philosophical thing applies here also that in life you take advices. Yeah. You are in a situation you go take some extra information. You don't want to come out of that problem on your own. Maybe you go to a therapist, you go to a mentor, you take some advices who have gone through situations where you know you are experienced on that field. Who can guide you there? Right? Guidance can actually help you do better or it may lead you to you know an even bad situation also, but at least you have some other extra information to navigate life. Same thing here. And in the AI world this extra information or intuition is called heuristics. Right? Basically you add guidance that is a heuristic estimate and it is coming from domain experts and these class of algorithms are called inform the search. Inform search the word itself means that I am being informed. Right? I have some extra information apart from the given problem. Right? With that context let's proceed ahead. There's a small table for you to you know have a look later. Right? For example, in uninformed it does not require using or it does not require using any knowledge during the process of searching. It uses knowledge during the process of searching right? This knowledge is coming from some you know domain expert or you are feeding it. Right? It's always bound to complete it can be complete and incomplete so there is completion means are you able to find that goal state or not? You know think like that efficiency wise it costs more and generates lower results. Thus it is comparatively less efficient because it's just blindly searching right? It has no other extra info. But here it costs less and generates quicker results so it's more efficient and so on. So have a look at them right? So the whole point here is to be smart right? Instead of doing the hard work if you see the previous class uninformed UCS, BFS, DFS depending all of them are in some sense they are doing hard work right? They don't have any extra they keep exploring they want to find the goal. But in informed search in some books you might also see this as heuristic search. The idea is to be smart about what paths to try right? Here my goal is not to you know touch all of them. You get the point right? That is called traversing tree or traversing a graph. This is not my goal I don't want to visit all of them. My goal is I am here in the green note. I want to go to this red. What is that path that can take me there? Can I have some smart move on which paths to try? Instead of trying every part. I come here I realize I can't go I come here then I realize okay I go here. Okay I go here then I realize I can't go to the red. So instead of just doing that approach which is what the previous techniques did. If I can have any smart way or an intuition that okay this is more promising. If I take this path I'll go there that's more beneficial. I notice selected for expansion based on an evaluation function that estimates the cost to the goal. Right? So there are a bunch of you know chat questions. One in form can be put as random exploration. No they're not random in some sense as we told. A f is used as a Q D f is used as stack and so on but the better wording could be that it doesn't have extra information. I have only the given problem at hand and I use that information to solve. Whereas in inform you have some extra information that is this heuristics right. As far as remember when we increase the depth it's to start again from the root okay. But yeah I mean I see no difference you know why you should do that because you already realized in iterative deepening that the goal is not there. In the things that you already explored so when you increase the depth why do you want to do that. You could always start from the you know below also there are more optimized versions in the matrix you know partially you can start exploring. Right? But as I told a lot of these implementations are written so that students can understand that right you get the point right even in these graphs that I showed you it's shown so that you understand that but technically there's no you know reason to do that. But will it be similar to BF is then what was that so could he hurry and get that you mean about informed or what you know he shared in the chat. What's that extra information we have in the inform search or just our heuristics I'll come there I'll come there yeah. In uninformed yeah it'll be like BFS only it is actually BFS and DFS only right iterative deepening or iterative lengthening is just same BFS and DFS but you are doing in a controlled fashion that's it right cool. Perfect let's go further right we understood about this smart way or whatever right now what is this heuristics function we kept talking about this intuition this heuristics and you know this is what is making this informed so what is this heuristics right. The info search algorithm is more useful for large search spaces right where that search space is a lot in terms of algorithms uses the idea of heuristics. So it is also called as heuristic search heuristic function what does this heuristic is a function which is used in informed search and it finds the most promising path or cost or solution right in many cases in your exams and so on you might be given a heuristic function or it might give you the direct you know promising path itself to don't worry about how that comes in some examples I'll directly give you the path in some examples. So it will be given as a function and if you solve that function you will get the path right it takes the current state of the agent as its input and produces the estimation of how close the agent is from the goal. The heuristic method however might not always give the best solution but it is guaranteed to find a good solution in reasonable time. Heuristic function estimates how close the state is the goal right so far so good yes no what is this there some other chat going I usually yeah the default is fine yeah that's right yeah the default you're right. So in heuristics what we are trying to do is we are guided by this estimation some person has told me some person has told me some domain expert has given me this heuristic function which is going to be my guiding light. The guiding light doesn't always mean I'm going to get the best result but it's a supporting hand is helping me is that clear all of you are we on the same page on what is informed search and what is heuristics heuristics is that extra information on a problem. Which is more like a guiding light to us which will help us to perform better but is it the best not necessarily right types of informed search algorithms right there are plenty of them right we will discuss to main information that is greedy best for such a good them which is also called as you know G B F S and A star algorithm and both of these are really popular right and the use case is that if you have a really large state space right let's say suppose you are you know trying to play like a chess or like you know so on the state space is a lot state says what we were drawing that like a diagram right in the last class whether it was in and so on the transition diagram. The diagram and so on for chess is like very very huge we can't even draw it so big right every move if you can map you know you will have a different type of a state space. In state spaces which are large in forms are better because you are not applying like DFS BFS and so on you are actually trying to go about with some extra items and this heuristic function is not probabilistic right it is a deterministic function you put that you get an answer or sometimes as it told you will get the answer it is not a problem. So, first of all let's apply this G B F S first and then we will go on to a star such yeah but the as a beautiful analogy right heuristics is like city guide into planning right he has an estimate right so every day he is taking a lot of time to get the answer. So, in estimate right so every day he is taking passengers here the estimate of you know you all are starting a trip and he tells you that okay approximately it may take two hours but if traffic is more today is a weekend maybe it will take 1.5 hours in this route does it mean that exactly that is what is going to happen no but it guides you right it is some extra information it's not the actual kilometer alone and the map and nodes alone some extra information is coming from that person right these are domain expert in that. You know city and so on similarly for our problems we will also have to create that heuristic right and then we will also look more about it on how to choose that heuristic and so on that's a big discussion in itself we will do that in this course also in the next class right where was the mention of evaluation function informed search the heuristic right the heuristic itself i'll show you in the next slide you will be more straightforward right if you see this particular. Map this is a map of Romania let's say your vacation in there your currently in a right from a right you want to go to book arrest right first things first all the 71 151 87 and so on are actual path cost if I am in you know is there in it will take me 75 to go to a right so these are all actual cost the kilometers let's say suppose right and now suddenly there is this H of arad equal to 366 what does this mean this means if I'm in arad I can go to book arrest in 336 this is the heuristic value is it reality we don't know it is some intuition which is telling I asked you know someone in arad right someone stood next to me I asked them okay I'm now in arad I want to go to book arrest what kilometer what kilometer is it telling 366 right in thimes or also someone is standing who's telling me that from thimes or I can take you in 329 so far so good everyone yes no maybe right these are heuristic values right pull if you have a look at this example right this is GBFS in this the function is the heuristic value itself what do we mean by this GBFS is a technique search technique informed search technique where it takes these heuristics very seriously meaning it will work on only these heuristics you get my point whatever heuristics is given only that I will consider and I'll try to do the search I will not consider my actual cost also I will only keep believing this heuristics and I will do the search that is why we're telling f of n equal to h of n h of n is the heuristic value it is the heuristic value not the actual value actually we don't know it's not there in this you know it's later okay yeah we need this also bang on he says a statement you know something is better than nothing at least some guidance is good for me let's say you want to do a career switch right you might ask some senior some friends right if you have some trust in professors you might also know touch base with them because some guidance is better than you know having just your own way of doing things and that's what info search means right but if this h of n is always correct not necessarily right press h of n did not guarantee you that whatever I say is correct and is giving you an intuition right but there is only two aspects one is good heuristic one is bad heuristic we will learn more about that there are proves there are ways in which you can decide what is a good heuristic or not before you even you apply that heuristic is it making some sense right before even we apply problem the same example of career switch or something you will ask three people and if you come to me I will tell you know I mean the best thing is to not have a career maybe you'll have to seek wisdom and you know do all that you will immediately see you know this guy is a fool asking him for you know advises just you know useless and let me just discard his advice and go for another heuristic right you get my point so you will actually evaluate certain heuristics and there is a way to evaluate we will learn more about it there is admissibility consistency and all that you will evaluate the heuristic to decide if it is good or bad and then apply to a problem is it making some sense yeah yes no maybe your face also had cost parameter is it not considered is no that is the actual cost itself you do not have this information let me again repeat if you see in this graph the 71 75 1499 these are the actual path costs but what do you have here as 366 329 are extra these are heuristic you did not have these in your uninformed cost search right boobyca so far so good perfect so now let's go and try to do JBFS and then we'll take a short break all these values are heuristics how do you read this I'll show one or two lines and that will be a more clear book arrest is having zero because that is my goal state if I'm in book arrest it'll take zero kilometers for me to reach book arrest I'm already there 366 how did it come from it came from domain expert someone who knows the whole of Romania who is vacationing there knows all of these intuitions he has given you this data right he says if you are in arad it will take 366 kilometers to go to book arrest if you are in fagarras it'll take 176 kilometers to reach book arrest or you can also you know take this is minutes or whatever metric it is so I will now show you one line you will you know put it in the chat what does it mean it is the hundred what does it mean yeah it is the hundred what does it mean it means from pitice to book arrest it is hundred that was what it means pitice to do it's okay all if you've got it right that's perfect some people will think you know to come to pitice these hundreds one is all wrong yeah it's just a heuristic with says that if you are in pitice the already it will take 105 to go to book arrest that's it okay and then there were some interesting questions I'll take that in the chat about you know Google map and all that we will come to that later okay cool we are given this heuristic data for all the notes I will apply my GBFS what is my current state yeah my current notice arad my goal status book arrest right I'm in arad it is 366 right where all can I go from arad from the graph what do I know where all can I go from arad I can go to Zerind I can go to CBU I can go to the misura right I can go to these three right I'll put them here I can go to these revelations and what did we really understand right we understood that in GBFS this technique takes this heuristic really seriously which means it only depends on this it ignores that actual cost also it says okay from arad I can go to you know Zerind Timisura and CBU okay good if I am in CBU how long will it take or how much it will take me to go to book arrest my heuristic will tell me various may CBU it is here it says 253 let me write it here arad was initially 366 I wrote it here right and Timisura 329 Zerind is what wherein this 374 I'm here so which of these three are the least right CBU right so I will expand that from where all can I go from CBU from CBU I can go to Fagaras I can go to remini so I can go to or I can go to arad I'll put all of them here right that arad also I'll put right and that was the 366 right Fagaras will actually you know have 176 and then for each of them again from this what is the smallest 176 you'll try to explore that and again Fagaras will take you to where others will take it to either CB or book arrest you explore both and for CB who it is 253 right because it is 33 for book arrest 0 because you have reached the goal so you come from arad to CBU CBU to Fagaras Fagaras to book right that's it this is GBFS right what did we really do GBFS is a technique where it is an informed technique right where you have given this particular you know heuristic data and it only relies on heuristic data right there are some questions let me quickly take that yeah can this heuristic be considered as a learned parameter by the machine we will come to that yeah in this example this is given by some human be you have already considered this while designing the algorithm right but you are exactly on the right direction this will not scale right you cannot have domains in every you know experts in every place so there is a class of techniques called learning heuristics where a heuristic itself will try to learn and you know from the patterns and so on and it's there in your course lucky so far it was never there but this semester it is there right we will spend some good amount of time in the next class learning about learning heuristic meaning how can a heuristic itself learn we will learn about but so far in today's class fully all of these are some human given values to us okay and the next question was when arad to CBU is 253 you know arad to CBU we are not mindful at all you have got this wrong okay arad we wrote 366 what does that mean arad 366 means from arad to booker is 366 and from arad we told there is T3 ways I can go to CBU or the misura or Zerind we did not write any path cost here this 253 means if you were to go to CBU CBU will take you in 253 units to booker is that is what we have written here is it making sense Karthik all of these values that you see here is purely heuristics GBFS only relies on this right some arad to CBU we didn't consider at all right this 253 is not you know arad to CBU it is actually what CBU is promising me to take me to booker is right that's very important right there was this question interesting was in yeah okay I already answered I believe okay so far so good okay there are a bunch of questions did not okay you also answered it okay okay welcome there yeah unable to follow missed initial classes and it's okay okay cool yeah so far so good all of you what did we really do again I'll quickly repeat all of you please pay attention this is slightly you know tricky but it's really simple if you get the crux of what it means right all of these lines means arad to booker is just 366 right figure is to booker is to 176 right CBU to booker is just you know 253 and so on it is telling how much it will take to go to the goal and all of these are estimates all of these are heuristics someone has given us and GBFS takes this really seriously right because it will only work on this it is not going to consider the actual cost and so on at all right for booker is it shows be zero because I am an already in booker is yes yeah so do you think GBFS is a optimal technique is a good technique what do you think your views yeah it is not optimal why first things first like if you are sensible will you only relay on that estimate will you not use your own you know knowledge also you will use that also right so if you consider the actual path cost and the heuristics then it is more better right even then you can go wrong right first of all this whole thing is about this is just a help it doesn't mean it will always get you good but only only believing on this is not good rate you can also you know take what you know in the problem in this case you only you know got carried away with this extra heuristic information you did not use any of these actual path cost at all right so it is not optimal because algorithms greedy and greedy algorithms are not optimal simple greedy algorithm greedy technique is an algorithm technique which says that take you know what is best at the current moment without regard to future consequence greedy never told that you will get in the best possible way so it is not optimal it only optimizes for current situation right so what you will do so this is also another example but before that we'll take a short break we'll come back in five minutes we'll have a look at this quick graph right and then we will go to the next one which is a stock right why was it introduced yeah for smaller problems is still fine it will help and a star algorithm is a better version of this meaning you consider this actual cost also and the heuristic also then that's a star yeah why wasn't the H value calculated based on the actual cost see there are two things here right calculating H of N based on this is not at all what we are talking we are given two things one is actual cost on his estimates if you use only estimate that is greedy best for such if you use both of them then that is a star how did you get this H of N is a totally different question either you get got from actual or you have experience in that field right or someone gave it to you or there is a function modeled where you can put some values and get it right we will talk about that also in the next class there will be two three things that we'll discuss we'll discuss about how to first create these such off ends how to determine which is good bad how to have certain you know specific use cases for heuristics like databases and you know things like that and we'll also try to learn about what so quickly asked can we have the algorithm itself created own heuristics learn and so on right look at all that in the next class when we took arad to cb who that means the heuristic which has less value a bit that's correct so in this case right I know that okay cb is telling I can go into 53 tm is or as he's 329 0.334 lowest is if you so let's go with this intuition let's explore where all can you go from cb who I can go to these four parts and each of that path promises me some value to go to book arrest fagrass is the lowest so let me explore that and he takes me to be cursed right and if you see this whole problem we are only relaying on these values and these are estimates we didn't look at the actual cost that is why this is gbfs yeah so if you had a factor of random exploration of neighbor node place greedy move will it be optimal so first of all if you have some greediness the chance of optimality reduces but to compensate that for that if you are telling that I will have some other extra intuition like exploring the neighbor nodes and which is more promising and so on you can make it optimal so in general this philosophy right if you know the exact problem then you can apply greedy along with some extra technique and make it optimal for sure but you can't come up with an algorithm which is optimal for all use cases you get the point right if you know the problem really well you can device a very clever algorithm and you can you know bring it to you know optimal solution so this all in data structures you might have learned more about this this is NP complete NP heart and you know type of problems if you then tone it down that problem if you really have like a well understood problem then you can exactly target an algorithm which is still optimal but you have solved for a reduced set and not the generalized version of it. right is it making some sense yes no okay but there is a major issue suppose a cost is minimum but after following that path other path cost is very large then again this won't be feasible so yes that's what we mean we never told this is optimal is always best but it's guiding you and that guidance can be better sometimes at least having no this is better than having nothing. But as I told in a start we will consider both will use the actual cost and this and try to be little more cautious so that we don't end up with what you told. Yeah sir what is one Christmas mind what is the total cost in reaching the book arrest is it 254 from CB who to know that is just the estimate right so if you want to know the actual cost you will again go back to the graph right what is RR to say. CB who RR to say. View is 140 from CPU we went to Fagar as right if you see here and Fagar as Toboker is so this is 140 plus 99 right plus two level right what is that this is 310 right 350 450 is that right yes no is that the optimal one. CB told me that he will take me to book arrest in what 253 he told me but did he really take us what is the actual cost from here it is 99 and from here it is 211 right that itself is 300 plus but this guy told me that I'll take you in 253 right and I also got carried away with him because I only believed his word. So domain expertise is must and supervision doesn't work here. Yeah we will come to the next class you will get a fair idea initially this is what we had people used to rely on domain expertise have a heuristic design work on the problem. But later we have learning heuristic techniques coming and there what you told us right we will actually try to have some algorithms where the heuristic itself could learn and we better and so on. Okay we'll wait for two moments we actually in a break now name 35 we will again resume right what was that punkage then in that case next iteration no in this problem the problem is over I reached the goal and it is not optimal. We did not come through the best way but we reached the goal I was in a rather came to book arrest that's it and the conclusion is that GBFS is not optimal he did not take me to the best because I was over. I did not consider anything else. Two questions do we learn heuristics based on the experience we will do currently we are not doing any of that all of these techniques is that you have a heuristics designed before even you run the algorithm you evaluate is it good or bad if it's promising you use that and that's it. It's not being updated in runtime and all that right there's another class called learning heuristics which we will learn in the next class but here it doesn't mean that you know I will update this and you know on the fly I'm updating my heuristics and so on no that was not being done. Yes digic stress any star or you know the same. In the algorithm world that is digic stress and here it is more of you know a star. But there is a twist because what we add in a star is a heuristic but in digic stress what you add is not the heuristic you are actually seeing in the graph the path and adding the actual cost. Yes is it making sense they follow the same intuition algorithmically but the way they work or not digic stress is not an informed search algorithm or informed shortest path algorithm right they don't have any extra information like a heuristic they work on the graph itself they will always do how far it. Have I come and from here to the goal how much will it take me right but a star what you are adding is a heuristic right and the right way is what secret is you see us and digic stress are the same. Yeah. No Google map doesn't use this I will tell you why Google map is a very very advanced algorithm because of the environment. Did you think about environment in all these while we learnt in the last class in real world where Google map functions what is the environment type. Can you tell me is it fully observable is it stochastic or is it episode sequential dynamic that all properties is dynamic. What if there's suddenly an accident and someone could report that you know there's there is an accident here so you it has to take a different route it is automatically updating right a lot of that is happening right in Google maps we can also suggest things you get the point right we tell that there is something happening here there is you know road block or something and that also takes into consider. And all those are again heuristics right and live it is getting updated and other things so it uses sophisticated things but it all boils down to some of these fundamentals. Cool I think let's you know have a look at this example and then we will again you know go to the next search technique firstly GBFS there's a graph with five notes there are actual values given right first things first are these values going to be useful in doing GBFS. Yes no answer will these values be useful or not when I'm having a look at GBFS no because it never really uses this right perfect what is this for each of the node I'm being given my H of N and H of N is what it is heuristics how do you read this in this example my fifth the node is my goal. Go all right these are the actual cost punker but we are not going to use it because in GBFS we are only going to use my heuristics these are the actual cost from one to two it takes 100 minutes let's say from two to three takes 50 minutes but I'm not going to use this because GBFS uses only heuristics what is the heuristics telling can I read this for you. From one to goal five in this example my goal is five right from one to five it takes 60 minutes right say right from two to five takes 120 from three to you know five takes 30 from four to five it's 40 from five to five zero why it is zero because this itself is the goal for me. Yeah so far so good what will you do first I am let's say suppose in node one right. Yeah what is my you know aim here let's get some of these right I think you're getting confused but seems incorrect and one or not actually you know the right statements to make here what is GBFS it is a search technique a search technique is going to take me from an initial state to a goal state in this example my initial state is one my goal state is five will it take me or not right I have my actual. Podcasts and can you man will you try to find what are all the ways to go to five I can go from one to two and from there I can go from two to five and that would have cost to me hundred plus 120 five that is 225 right or I can go from one to two and from there I can go from two to three and then I can go from three to five then also I have reached my goal and that would have costed me 100 plus 50 plus 125 or I can go from 1 to 3 directly and then to 5 or I can go from 1 to 3 then to 4 then to 5 or I can go from 1 to 2 2 to 3 3 to 4 4 all of them will have their own costs associated but the point here is one can take me to 5 in different ways right when I consider my actual cost now we are actually guided by intuition that is why this is a informed search algorithm and the 60 120 30 40 0 are heuristic values and who gave us someone has given us someone who knows about this place someone who knows this is your house this is your office this is a mall this is a bit institute this is your exam center someone knows about all this floor plan they know about it they have given you this numbers that from one if you want to go to 5 it will take 60 minutes from two if you are here it will take you 120 minutes right they have just given you this heuristic values right and GBFS is a technique which will only rely on this it will not look at the actual cost right I mean one what are all the options for me I can go to 2 or I can go to 3 or I can go to 4 correct yes no I can go to 2 I can go to 3 I can go to 4 what about 2 if I am in 2 how much will he you know take me among these 2 3 4 what are their heuristic values for 2 it is 120 for 3 it is 30 for 4 it is 40 so which is the smallest it is this 3 node so we will decide to explore that path the whole of informed search was what if you remember that line it's a beautiful line which says it is about being smart what paths to try you might think yours not and then get betrayed that's okay at this moment I know that among these three paths which is either to go to 2 and then explore him further or 3 or 4 3 is most promising because its heuristic values the lowest among 2 3 and 4 so I pick that where all can 3 take me 3 can take me to 5 and 4 right 4 and 8 can take if I am in 4 the you know heuristic values 40 if I am in 5 the heuristic values 0 right so from initially 1 I came to right I can I can either go to 1 3 1 4 or 1 2 I chose that path of 3 I can go from 1 3 4 or 1 3 5 and 1 3 5 is my goal right what was the path cost from 1 to 3 it was 100 right the actual cost now if you see the problem is no over now you go back and check in the real graph what was the you found the path GBFS told you go from 1 to 3 then 3 to 5 your goal state is here goal reached problem over now if you want to really know what was the actual cost spent what was 1 to 3 it was 100 and there's 3 to 5 was 125 that is your 225 it took me 225 to reach here right expanded how many nodes did you expand I expanded 1 I expanded 3 2 and 4 I did not expand how many nodes got generated how the nodes are here in this whole graph 1 2 3 4 5 6 right so there are 6 nodes that were generated what was the max queue length at any point if you see in the queue they were not more than 3 people initially 1 was there it got removed 2 3 4 went when it removed 3 then 4 5 is the method set if you are starting with one what do what to do with the value of 60 you're not doing anything we started with one only even now right you do nothing with that 60 you just you know see where all can you take in some times from some other node also you can go to one let's say suppose 5 was not the goal then what will happen where all can fight technique 5 could have also taken me to that one and then one would have came here and that one would have told that I will take you to 5 in 60 so at that point it might be of help you got that okay when you start with the first node itself you don't need that but later in some times he will again further take me to that root node and that time it might be useful even if we know that 3 to 5 is the goal just in case the heuristic value of 3 to 4 would have been lesser it would have taken the path and then yes correct you are just relying on the heuristic waste on that only you will explore further what is expanded meaning expanded meaning you are actually seeing where all can you take me so in this if you see when I was in the root node I asked that question where all can you take me so I knew that I can go to 2 I can go to 3 I can go to 4 that concept is called expanding and this new nodes where all I can go those are the generated nodes in other words initially I put that one in my queue when I removed that one and asked where all can you take me 2 3 4 came I put them into that queue that path is called exploration meaning you remove that you ask that question where all can I go that is expansion and whoever got generated or you see here 2 3 4 and then 4 5 and in this example I did not expand to I did not ask that question where all can you take me or where all can 4 take me right in this whole problem only 1 and 3 were expanded others were not expanded right why 5 not here because 5 itself is the goal I reached my goal why will I again expand him yeah so I say some questions which node we should start or any no in this problem it was already given one was the start node 5 was the goal node yeah is it mandatory to get heuristic values for all nodes if you stick data not available consider the actual cost node gbfs is an informed search you need to have heuristic values simple yeah pool we already discussed that this is not great why is it not great can someone tell me why it's not great why is it not great expanded should be equal to 3 or 2 expanded should be 2 only 1 and 3 got expanded right and then I went to 5 and I realized that that's the goal so it's not technically expansion right I reached it so I did not further see where all can fight take me okay cool I see you know answers you know can take to the wrong path nope that that should not be the you know statement okay he did not take me to the wrong path his path cost was not optimal you can tell something like that right the problem is I want to go from one to 5 he took me right it was not the optimal that's okay but the fundamental problem of him is that he did not fully utilize the knowledge he had do you get that point why did you only believe on this H of n you had the actual cost also then why you could not use that why you did not use that that is what is this draw drawback right or in simple words she's that person who is just believing on others and not introspecting you already know what is best for you you're also taking advice why are you just believing on others advises look at your data also think about yourself also right that is what we mean right without domain experts know heuristic well it may be correct but you learn later that you can also create algorithms which will be learning heuristics right they themselves can derive heuristics and so on but for now in this today's session or all these algorithms work they they want heuristic well right will generate the notes will be equal to not always right in this case it was so but in the previous example did you ever generate this uh wish you are a si and so on i see in this example you get that point right beneath did we ever take generate these notes never right we only were playing in this area we each bookers so we stop there so not always you will be you know going now this is not a blind algorithm this has extra it was just your thing that you did not use the actual data so now we will combine that is a star yeah all of you again focus is very important trusting algorithm which is a star right a star is one of the best and popular techniques used in path finding and graph traversals a lot of games and web based maps use this algorithm for finding the shortest path efficiently but google maps again i warn you it doesn't just use a star it has a lot more other things in it and just if you implement a star algorithm that doesn't mean you implemented google maps right it has a lot more others to it it is essential he a best first search algorithm right it is a best first search algorithm this is informed search technique right works using heuristic values a star algorithm works as it maintains a tree of parts originating as the start node it extends those parts one edge at a time it continues until its termination criteria is satisfied right let's look at this further a star algorithm works on the idea to avoid expanding paths that are already expense a star algorithm extends the path that minimizes the following function called evaluation function f of n f of n is equal to g of n plus h of n where g of n is the cost so far to reach n for any node i have spent some cost to come till there right that is made g of n and one of them will be 0 which is that node g of n will be 0 for one node which is that node for goal why will it be 0 start node very good right for the starting node because i have not come anywhere the cost so far to reach n i am starting from there only i have not come from anywhere so that is 0 right and what is h of n h on n is the heuristic value that is the estimated cost from n to goal right h of n will be 0 for some node what is it now all of you who told earlier goal not correct because the heuristic to reach a goal from goal is 0 right i'm already in that what is f of n it is estimated total cost of path from n to goal if you add both of them right so this is making more sense right here in gbf was what we did f of n was equal directly to h of n i did not consider any path cost at all i told whatever is intucial let me take that but here i am telling i will add my heuristic value with the actual cost incurred so far if both of them put together is already expensive then why should i take that it's actually misleading me so let me not take that so this is a more better informed algorithm where you take into one both we take that same graph right there's a graph here right 12345 five is the goal node one is the initial node i have these actual path costs and i have these heuristic costs given who has given me this yeah can someone quickly answer this who has given me this data and what does this mean one means from one i can go to five in 60 from two i can go to five in 120 from four i can go to five in 40 these are all some friends domain experts SME's were I've given to me right this is a heuristic value i will use this along with this actual path and decide how to go to five let's do that i start from one i explore one what exploring means from one i can go to i can go to two i can go to three i can go to four i know that okay what is f of n of two right f of n is g of n plus h of n that is what is the actual cost incurred to come from one to two see the graph from one to two it is 70 and what is the heuristic of two to is promising me that i'll take you in 120 so i will do 70 plus 120 very good so far so good let's do for one two three what is the f of n of three you realize it right in the previous gbfs also we were calculating f of n but f of n was directly h of n that is the heuristic value so we directly took these values but now we are telling f of n is nothing but g of n plus h of n g of n is the actual cost incurred from one to three from the graph if you see one to three is 125 take that 125 plus what is the heuristic of three what is he promising from three to goal node what is it 70 so add that 195 similarly for four if you do one to four is what one to four is 100 and four to goal node is 40 the heuristic 100 plus 40 is 140 so among the three which is the lowest right this is the lowest what does this indicate it indicates that two and three are not very promising they are telling already i have incurred some you know to come here right and you are then taking me in some value if these two are added these are not so promising as this one so let me take this you get the point right i'm not just going with that intuition or heuristic value but i'm just doing a cautionary check that i've already spent some cost to come here and you are promising me something put together what is more promising 140 is more promising i take that from four well all can i go i can go to only one node that is the goal node and then if you calculated will tell me this correctly for five what is the cost incurred so i came from one to four that was already a hundred from four to five that is again a 50 and then goal node heuristic is zero so hundred plus 50 plus zero that's 150 and that's it right no not 190 and so on you guys i'm making some mistake there again i repeat from four this was the most promising so i expanded it i explored it i came here i now know that from one to four i had already spent hundred don't go by this 140 logic right it's very very important now we are again applying f of n formula f of n formula for this node five that is g of n plus h of n what is g of n the cost incurred to come from the initial node to this node that is nothing but one to four which was nothing but this hundred four to five that is again another 50 hundred plus 50 is 150 plus heuristic of five what is that that zero because i'm in the goal state so hundred plus 50 plus zero is 150 i'm done this is what is shown here initially it was one i could have gone one two one three or one four i chose four because that was the most promising so one four five and one come up one one come up here still in the queue they are remaining but i already reached the goal here which is my you know fifth one so i stopped there expanded is one and four generated is one two three four yeah is it still wrong is a star optimal what do you think a star algorithm is it optimal or not yeah think about it think about it for a minute and it's no harm in thinking about it was it's important yeah better than greedy okay that's a very diplomatic answer but is it optimal right even if this guy doesn't give very good heuristic will he still find the an optimal one think about it yeah will he because he uses this existing knowledge also it is better correct this is what will lead us to the next topic okay a star is optimal provided it satisfy some conditions okay we will learn about that soon but don't worry about it so far between GBFS and this which is better that we are clear right Karthik says the algorithm we rely on actual values then why do we need to you know have heuristic values beautiful question correct why because this heuristic value is helping me choose the most promising path let's assume this heuristic value is not there then what is the difference between this and digikstra algorithm right single source shortest path algorithm digikstra algorithm where one is my source not five is my goal not in that case you would have ended up exploring two and three also you would have expanded them because you don't have this intuition you will expand all of them and then find but here a star help me because of this heuristic value among these which is the more promising path and it took that promising path that is why this heuristic value is useful so far so good yes no maybe yeah you can have negative age also I used but as long as those two conditions are satisfied right there are conditions which is what we will see sooner and if satisfies that then it is optimal otherwise it is not right okay but by the way this is the generic version of A star there are many variants of A star possible and if you're interested you can have a look at them a couple of them are there in your textbook a couple of them are not there in the textbook but if you go to research papers there are many variants of this possible but we will stick on to the classic version of A star right in your book there are some more A stars given don't worry about it okay so far so good all of you let's do another example right still not understand how when 50 came okay let's do it one more time please focus yeah all of you here right we were here right first of all A star algorithm it's going to use both of this the actual data the heuristic data why because this will give me some possible promising directions to explore instead of exploring everything I'm at one my start note I'm exploring him meaning where all can I go I can go from one to two I can go from one to three I can go from one to four I can't go to one to five you see the direction of the arrow so these are the three possible places now for each of the note you are going to apply the formula which is f of n is equal to zero of n plus h of n right where n is that note meaning you will calculate f of two f of three f of four have you calculated f of two is nothing but what is the cost incurred to come from one to do yeah the empathy can you tell that what is the cost from one to two from the actual graph one to two take 70 right what is the heuristic of two now meaning what is two promising me two promises me that if you are in two I'll take you to the goal node in 120 so 70 plus 120 is what is this nodes f of n what about this three yeah the empathy can you do that and show me quickly only two things you have to add what is the actual cost from one to three you get it from this graph right and what is the heuristic value of three which is 70 right got that one to three is nothing but this 125 this heuristic value added similarly for four you did for four you got you know your hundred plus heuristic values for this is the crux of it right now you realize okay among these three which is the most promising one one 40 is more promising because these two guys are already between me to come till this node and then its heuristic is already more so let's take this part so from four where all can I go I can go only to five so I go you don't take that now what is the f of n of five what is the f of n of five it is what is the cost taken to reach till here then the heuristic of five what is the cost to come till here that is one to four plus four to five one to four is nothing but this hundred and then four to five was this 50 hundred plus 50 what is the heuristic value of five it is zero because I'm already in the goal so hundred plus 50 plus zero right this is hundred one to four is this hundred right hundred plus 50 plus zeros and that's it you're done cool in GB search we made the h of n for three is 30 we can try the same in this a stars are so yeah you can do that you can always change the values and you know try that if you have 30 here then this will be one 55 even then this is more promising and you will choose that only right jerem even if you change this to 30 already to come to one to three it was 125 125 plus 30 is one 55 still this one 40 is promising you will go here but in the other way if that was smaller you would have explored let's take another example and then it will be more clear I have some exercises also for you of course and you will be drawing that offline yeah cool let's have a look at this same example we are in bokeh rest how did we pick this one it was given to us it'll be given to us in the problem in my example I told it's one in this example what lady it's told agent is here meaning arad is this starting again goal is my book arrest I want to go from arad to book arrest and what are this this table is what and someone tell me what this table means to us heuristic very good someone has already given me this heuristic values I already have the actual values also here I will use both of them I'll start with arad right arad is my starting point right what is this 0 can someone tell me you put the formula if you are more inclined towards you know using that formula types that will be more helpful for you this is nothing but my f of n right and this is my g of n and h of n g of n is 0 because that is a start node what is the start mode definition start mode definition says the cost incur to come till there I have not incur anything because I start in arad I'm sitting here now agent is here so that 0 what is arad so you're stick 366 I put them here this is 366 first node so I expand them we're all can you go from arad I can go to z-rnd I can go to cb-u I can go to thymisora what will I do I'll expand them cb-u thymisora z-rnd for each of them what am I adding very very important I'm adding g of n which is the cost incurred from coming from arad to cb-u right which is 140 right 140 right to z-rnd that 75 to cb-u it's 180 you see here 180 and 75 what are these extra values plus values h of n h of n is what for cb-u it is 253 return here put it here for thymisora he says that I will if you're in thymisora I'll take you to book arrest in 329 put that right z-rnd says I'll take you in 375 put it if you add them you are getting your I used to you can put it in any way this is more like equal to should be in this side and that's also find it's all the same thing okay among these three which is more promising among 449447 and 393 cb-u is more promising I take this take this meaning I explore him where all can cb-u take me he can take me to fagaras he can take me to reminisu he can take me to these two also where they're connected or idea and arad also he can take me help with that from cb-u this node got expanded yeah so now for arad if you see here so someone was initially asking me right like the initial node why you are you having that you know cost and so on you see here now you understand right in this case from arad to cb-u from cb-u to arad what does that from arad to cb-u is 140 again this 140 right 140 plus 140 is this 280 the actual cost similarly for fagaras from arad to cb-u what was that 140 correct yes no 140 plus cb-u to fagaras what is that cb-u to fagaras is 99 so 140 plus 99 becomes 239 similarly for this also you would 140 plus you know that value and 140 plus this yeah and now what are these extra values h of n arad say 366 fagaras says you know various fagaras over here right he says 176 for arad says 380 and in every mini s is 123 add all of them you have got the values which among them is now the smallest 646 415671414474449 right these are still in the leaves yeah yeah we can explore reno any of them yeah in those cases there are multiple shortest paths correct so any of them you can explore but mostly in exams and so on you will go in a lexico graphical lottery meaning alphabetical lottery right you can just choose one of them now the shortest among them is remini so he is more promising than the others so I'll explore him where all can remini so you can take me to ptst or he can take me to cb-u again or he can take me to cryo cryo with this tcb right what does this 366 can someone correctly tell me they get a good if they correctly tell what is this 366 yeah geofan is okay but how did this 366 come right arad to cb-u cb-u to remini so remini c2 cryo yeah perfect very good ptst is what arad to cb-u cb-u to remini c to remini c2 it's 377 this one again cb-u again oh god right so from arad to cb-u 140 from cb-u to remini c again from remini c2 cb-u to 300 the next values as you see here they're all coming from here intuition cryo is 160 and so on you put all of them you added all of them now who is the smallest this is a very interesting step in this algorithm if you see here 449 447 553 557 526 671 555 646 you know 646 right sometimes what students will do at this step you will see okay out of 526 417 553 417 is smallest so let me explore this no you'll not do that because in your queue all of these leaves are there this fagaras is also there who's 415 this is better than this pity see correct so you will explore this fagaras now again right fagaras where would have he taken us he would have taken us to cb-u or bookarist very good i'll directly put this cb-u that is going to take me in 519 and 450 very important step i have now explored fagaras meaning he generated cb-u and bookarist but i've not reached bookarist right there are these two steps right one is exploring one is generating or expanding and generating correct so expanded fagaras i did not expand bookar that didn't reach him here so my goal is not yet reached right at this stage among all the leaves who are the you know real quick what is the smallest amongst x459457 and so on now it is these better so i'll again come to him and i will explore if i explore again i'll get bookarist karyoshia and remini see and i see that i've calculated again so for this bookarist what was the value what all got added can you tell that what all got added i added arat to cb-u i added cb-u to remini see remini so to pitus-t pitus-t to bookarist that is this for it for karyoshia also similarly you know this part and this part you added you got these and these values are nothing but your h of n right and then or this it is zero because that's the goal state now among all of this which is the smallest here also i had a bookarist if you see here here also i had them but that was 450 here i have 480 and among all the leaves the lowest is this so i'll come here and that is my goal note so i stop here right was it optimal if you see in the real graph also to come from arat to bookarist what was the best it was the best path there many paths to come i'll leave it you to find it later but r-a star algorithm told you can go from arat to cb-u and then you can go to remini see and then from there to pitus-t and then to bookarist right and 418 it could take us there is a star algorithm clear can we repeat why we expand progress instead directly so at this step right this step you wanted right so here we expanded everything and we are now looking at the leaf notes right what are those we expanded remini see we got these three answers 526 417 553 right what will students do here at this step right 417 they will think it is as small as so let's you know actually go and explore expand him and try to see further but you have to consider all the leaf notes compare them here you have 449 here you have 447 here you have 553 here you have 526 here you have 617 here you have 5450 and 646 so this 415 is smaller than the 617 so you take a pause you tell okay maybe pitus-t to come to pitus-t itself is 417 and then how much will you know then again I have to expand him and I will know the smallest more promising path is this faggers so let me switch here so I'll go to faggers I'll expand him like this I got those values and then when I again compare the leaf steps right I'm highlighting all the you know leaf which I'm comparing I got to know that now again pitus-t is the better one so I will again expand him I got the value and then again the smallest is bokeh rest itself I reach there and then it relates that's the goal note so far so good question if a problem is given and if h of n is given and if g of n is given and a graph is given source and goal are given will you be able to come up with the state spaces tracing and come up with you know which is the path which is the cost and so on okay I see a lot of thumbs up everyone okay it's clear but still dependency on heuristic so if heuristic is not close to actual then it's a bit messed up perfect greed that is our job we have to know evaluate what is a better heuristic and what is a bad heuristic and so on but given a heuristic this guy does the job right and if given a problem like this we should be able to trace it and try to come up with this how do we use both the actual value and heuristic and so okay very good golden question still remains right so heuristic values helps in choosing next path and in need not the best choice and he not be the same or g of n should be the other will come that is what is this when is a start optimal I told you that a star is optimal right but when is the optimal right we'll look at that yeah there are some conditions when those conditions happen right he's optimal right heuristic are calculated either by a function or someone has given you let's for now imagine someone has given you but in the next class I'll show you you can also calculate it or heuristics can itself learn they're all advanced we'll look at it in the next class right so the question is when is a star optimal a star is optimal when the heuristic satisfies certain conditions and there are two conditions one is called admissibility and the other is called consistency okay what are they a heuristics admissible if it never overestimates the actual cost to reach the goal okay h of n is less than or equal to head star of n where h star of n h of n you already know what is h h of n yeah what is h of n in all our problems so far all of this values heuristics very good that heuristic value should always be less than or equal to head star of n and what is this it's star of n it is the actual cost from node n to the goal right it should be head star of n is the true cost from node n to the goal is this g of n so students will tell sir why you were putting here we can put g of n here no g of n is the cost that took from initial node to come till that node n but head star of n is from that node n to the goal are we all on the same page for example here right this particular step let's say this you know 317 what is this 317 it is from araw to come till this pity that is 317 that is g of n but head star of n is what head star of n is the actual cost from pittest t2 bookerst we'll get it from that graph from pittest t2 bookerst it's 101 this is my head star of n the actual true cost from node n pittest t to the goal node bookerst and what did my heuristic value of pittest t say he told 100 so is 100 less than the true cost yes very good this is an admissible heuristic meaning it did not overestimate right meaning the heuristic is optimistic right it may underestimate the cost just like it did now 100 is less than head one but it should never exaggerate it right example straight lane distance is admissible for route planning because the actual road cost cannot be shorter than the straight lane distance okay it should not be more but certain relaxation is even yes it should not be more it should never overestimate a heuristic should not overestimate underestimate is okay but this can be 50 as well that could potentially change the route yes correct we will evaluate it but this is only the first condition the first condition is it should not overestimate what is the second condition this in the lines of what you know they restored that okay this head star of n in this my example was 101 and h of 1 was 100 but it could be 10 also 10 is also lesser it satisfies the condition it is admissible but how close is that 10 to the actual value not much but 100 is close to ahead and correct this is what is the next attribute which is called consistency it's also called as monotonicity right a heuristic is consistent for every node n and the successors of that node n star this condition is satisfied h of n is less than or equal to cost of n comma and star plus h of n star where h of n is nothing but your heuristic what is h n star or this h n dash already know that see how fin is the cost moving from n to n dash there should be a dash here yeah well let me give you the meaning the estimated cost should not suddenly drop by more than the actual step cost consistency means the heuristic should reduce gradually as we move towards the goal as we move towards the goal that nodes heuristic value should reduce it should not suddenly drop by more than the actual cost of this step right why consistency matters is that if a heuristic is consistent f of n values do not decrease along the path this means once a star expands a node the best path to that node has already been fought right if this property is not satisfied then we will go for a toss right I'll pause here we'll come back with this in the next class right we will look at both of this a little more in detail right I'll also have this exercise done in the class right if you already have time you can explore this one thing you already know this table is about I have already given you this graph there is an actual cost also and node 3 is my goal in this case right and I've also given you these heuristics can you come up with for each of the node is it admissible or not admissibility so far all of you are clear for every node that heuristic value that someone has given to me that should be less than or equal to the actual cost from that node to the goal you can quickly find out and tell if it is yes or no it should be yes right if it is yes and it is consistent also considering I'll again come back we will actually do this formula do it in the next class if both of them are satisfied for all the nodes then that particular case is optimal you will definitely get a correct answer otherwise yes or is not optimal okay I've solved it we will do it together in the next class right there are two three slides on what makes a good heuristic good to assess pure heuristic and I'll give you free with this there are two exercises for you today one is planning problem formulation are we all clear with this part planning a trip with a delivery drone solving a maze scheduling patient appointments in a clinic there are three problems here for each of them you should formulate it meaning those five things initial state goal state all that you should do and then think about some of this okay PAS also you can do if I wear you what I will do I will do this for these I will and define the environment I'll do the PAS all of that also I do yeah if I wear you but I'll leave it in there's another question there's a graph here there's data given here there is H of you know what is this H of S H of N so on I'll come there I'll come there you guys are tying but let me complete and leave the others free then I'll take you what is H of S 5 what are these values ideally H of something is what heuristic very good these are heuristics actual values here this is the goal this is the start do a star algorithm on this right that I'll leave you free I'll stop the recording I'll take some questions with her in the chat but others are free to want I hope you have a class at 1030 I'll see you the next week as usual again repeat this material or this slide will be available in our course page inside this files folder right and if you come to this lab activity all that BFS DFS all that also are implemented right if you want go have a look at that there as a recording there's a Python program all that is there go have a look at it right there's some collapse thing also yeah you can check everything so in this files folder you will get your material that being so it thank you so much I'll see you the next Sunday I'll stop the recording then take up the questions of you people right