Transcript: ACILecture4.mp4
============================================================

Hey folks, good morning. Hi, good morning. We'll wait for two more minutes and then we'll get started. Okay, while it's sortable. Okay, okay, sure. So you did have a webinar, right? Is that right? The last week on Tuesday. So that's also available as a recording. The materials are there in the files folder. You can also have a look at that. You have a look at that. So I hope you had seen the announcement, right? So the announcement was all about your assignments groups. Right? So the deadline is already over and all of those who have not yet, you know, been assigned to a group like you did not choose your groups. You'll all be randomly assigned and that'll happen soon. And all of you will have your groups before the next session. Okay, so there was no program shown. So, Krithy. Like some implementation like Python codes and so on, where they're not shown. Oh, okay. Let me have a word with the facilitator, because that was also a part of it. They were supposed to walk you through some code snippets. But things that's already in the lab, maybe they have just ignored it. But did they cover any variance of a star? We just looked at what is a star algorithm in the class, but there was also some other examples of some other variance of a star. Right? I create a deepening a star and so on. So where they covered or where they also not covered. Okay. Okay. Yeah, I mean, that's the same classic textbook example. But apart from a star, they should have covered others also. Oh, yeah, your friends are telling right IDA star and so on. So some Python codes also they must have shown you. So just have a recording, you know, view. Some people are telling yes, they did show Python codes. But yeah, have a look at that. Just additional, they're not from your exam point of view, but all of these webinars are, you know, something that is an add-on to the course, right? Well, take this as a feedback. Let me go back and have the recording view. I'll have a chat with the facilitator. Just give it another minute and let's quickly get started. Otherwise, how are things? Are you all practicing those exercises? There's some exercise questions in each of the deck for the past two classes. My intuition says not many have done that. Is my intuition correct? A heuristics says most of you have not done that. So if you've not done that, please do that. Right. So don't keep it to the last minute. It'll not take more than 15, 20 minutes. All those exercises are just what is covered in that particular class. Right. So can quickly have a look at that. I'd solve it discuss about it in the discussion forum. That you don't pile up everything to the last minute. Yeah, and scheduling webinars in weekend is not possible because you have other classes over weekends. So that's an operational constraint. That's the reason they are on weekdays. But of course, as I told, they're not directly from the exam point of view. And it's just additional and recordings are of course there. You can have a look at the recordings. Yes, previous paper reference papers. I have also been getting some email. So I will be uploading it. I'll be uploading that after the eighth session. Right. After the eighth session. Right after the session. I'll be posting an announcement with the exact syllabus. And also the sample paper or previous paper. But as I told, don't get too much boggled into it because the syllabus has changed quite a lot. Right. So just have a look after your prepare and that should be it. Yeah. Yeah, my heuristic seems to be. Admissible, right? Nanish, but please do prepare. So that's my request that. Don't pile up these exercises. Do it often and that'll help. Okay, okay, first you know, got it. Okay, okay. Yeah, I mean, I will I'll convey that and they're all LFs. Yeah, learning facilitators and aspiring professors and all of them. So that's completely fine. So these exercises are in my slides. Yeah. In all my slides, there are few last few slides which has some exercises. So that's what we're talking about. They're not assignments. They are just self help exercises, right? Not even within. They're always in the last few parts of the slide. So if you just downloaded, go to the last two, three, four slides, you will get those exercises. Yeah, cool. I think it's already five minutes. So let's get started. So first thing first, we are in 25% of the course. Right. Today is the fourth contact session. So welcome to artificial and computational intelligence to the fourth contact session. So what did we do in the last class? Yeah, real quick. Yes, no. What did we do in the last class? Okay, we started about informed search. Right. So that's the important part. We started telling that okay, uninformed search is more like a blind search. We really don't know where we are heading. Only the problem is given. But in a lot of practical applications that's not good enough, we want to have some. You know, intuition or guidance and you know, informed guesses. And that's what was informed search. Right. So we started with a bunch of things, right? We learned about a recap of uninformed and then we started with you know, informed search. And we took a difference and in particular, we learned about greedy best for search. And also a style in greedy best for search. What was you know, fully considered only the heuristic, right? We only considered the heuristic and we not considered the actual cost at all. Whereas in a star, we told that you know, let's be more cautious. Let's not only rely on the heuristics and let's take both of these into consideration, which is the actual cost, right? Actual cost so far. And then the heuristic from there to reach the goal. This is what we have been looking at. We saw a bunch of problems and then we had looked at two properties, right? So first things first from where do we get these heuristics? Yeah. Where do we get these heuristics from from domain experts, SMEs and all of them? And are they always right? Not really, right? They could also be wrong. And if they are wrong, then we will not get optimal solutions. And that's when we told that, okay. When we get some heuristics, let's try to evaluate how good or bad that heuristic values are. One general principle is if these heuristic values are close to my actual values, then that heuristic is good. I repeat, it's a very simple statement, but very powerful. All that it says is the closer my heuristic values are to the actual that heuristic is better. Because if it is close to my actual values, then it will be very promising. If it is very far away, then it's a bad heuristics, right? Because it's misleading me and it will not take me to the optimal ones. But technically, we will actually evaluate two properties. Those two properties are nothing but admissibility and consistency. And both of them we had just looked at it theoretically. We'll actually do an example also today, but admissibility is a property which says that the heuristic is optimistic, meaning it may underestimate the cost but never exaggerate or overestimate. We want to have that property for all the heuristic values, right? For all the nodes, whatever heuristic we have, we want it to be admissible, meaning it should not overestimate. And in consistency, right, we told that the triangular inequality should be satisfied. I'll also show you this diagram. So let's say suppose there is this node n, right? And it has some successors. I can go to this end dash. I can also go to this goal state. This is the actual cost between n and n dash. And from this end dash, there is a heuristic value to go to this goal. And from here also I have this from n to g. What is my h of n? So in this, the consistency property tells us that this direct heuristic that we have from this node to the goal state g, that should be less than or equal to this addition, right? That is that triangular inequality will be doing that for a few problems and it will be remotely, right? And if both of them are satisfied, then a star becomes optimal. Meaning it will always give us the best answer. Otherwise, it is not guaranteed. Right? How do we know if the it's high or low than the actual cost? So first things first, we are actually now designing the heuristics. Right? What meaning we actually take some sample problem. We have the actual values also. We have the heuristic values also. And we are computing this to estimate how the heuristic is behaving. We have not yet deployed this heuristic. We are not actually, you know, putting it into deployment and working with it. We first work with the sample and we try to see how good is this heuristic in this sample. So for that sample, we know the actual cost also. You know what I mean, right? So even in your industry problems, we don't directly go to deployment, right? So we take some sample problem, we design the heuristic, we compare with it, we try to see which is more promising. And then try to actually know deploy the heuristic. We'll also learn about relaxed problems and so on. I'll come to that slide, but that's the, you know, we can so for that. Yeah, we have learning also will come to that. So first things first, let's learn these two properties with a given example. So far so good. We learned about informed in informed, we learned about heuristics. We learned about heuristics are good, but we have to determine if it is good enough. Right? Is it going to be promising for me or is it going to be misleading? Or in other words, how good or bad this heuristic is for that we have two properties. Admissibility and consistency. So let's actually put it into practice. And in this particular question, we'll try to identify or apply how to find out. Admissibility and consistency theoretically, we already saw. Admissibility means it should not over estimate. Consistency means for every edge, we should have that triangular inequality satisfied. But let's put it into practice. So there's a small table given to us here. So there are the same example. There is this five nodes for each of the node the H of n H of n is what heuristic value is already given to us. And the actual values or the path cost is there in this graph. My first question is is it admissible? First things first, admissibility and consistency, both of these properties have to be computed for every node in the problem. It's not for the overall problem, you know, calculating once it is for every node that we have to calculate. Right? Let's do for admissibility. What is the property? Heuristic value H of n should be less than or equal to head star of n. Right? That is what is admissibility. Let's try to do that. First things first, H of n is zero for this because this is the goal state. So for goal state, the heuristic value is zero because you're already in goal. But for others, let's try to see. Right? So let's consider this node one. The node one is here and node two is here three four five and so on. Right? So from node one, right? Where all can you go? Yeah? Where all can you go to this node three? Yeah? Or what are the different ways? From one I can go directly to three or I can go from one to two and then to three. Right? So there are two path costs. If I go directly from one to three, it is going to be one twenty five. If I go from one to two and then two to three, that's going to take me 70 plus 50, which is one twenty. So far so good. I took my node one. I'm asking my question. What are all the paths from this node to the goal? I have two paths. One is the direct one, which is one twenty five. The other one is 70 plus 50, which is one twenty. Right? What is my actual heuristic telling? Actual heuristic is telling 80. So my heuristic value is less than the actual path cost. You can consider minimum or maximum. Some authors prefer to take it minimum. Like in my slide also have taken minimum, but Nirae is also not wrong. He told because 80 is less than one twenty five because he has taken this path. That's also okay, but you can also take the lower one. So among one to three or in other words, the actual minimum cost to go from the node one to three is one twenty. And my heuristic value is 80, which is less than that one twenty. So it is admissible. Yeah, so far so good. Let's compute it for two. Right? For two from two, what are all the paths to go to three? Right? I have directly, you know, this one node. Right? So I can consider that is 50. Because one twenty five is not optimal. Right? Among one twenty and one twenty five, one twenty is the best. Because I can go from one to two and two to three and that is one twenty, not one twenty five. One twenty is better than one twenty five. So I'll take that. Even in that case, my heuristic value is less than that one twenty five. Even if you consider one twenty five, then also my heuristic value is less than one twenty five. Right? In other case, this particular heuristic 80 is admissible. The second one from two to three, it's going to take fifty. That's my actual cost. Right? My actual cost is fifty. My heuristic value is 60. What does it mean is this admissible? In other words, 60 less than fifty is not true. Right? So this particular heuristic value is not admissible. Right? So far so good. For third, you don't need to calculate because that itself is the goal. What about four from node four? How can I reach three? From four, I can go to five from five. I can go to one and from one, I can come to three and what is that cost? Fifty plus seventy five plus one twenty five. Right? That is nothing but what is it? That is one part. What other part do I have? I can go from four to five. I can go from five to one and so on one to two and then from two to three. That is also taking me to this goal. So basically you have to enumerate all the parts. You have to enumerate all the parts from this particular node to the goal node and calculate the actual cost involved in it and take the minimum out of it. Right? And then see is your heuristic value less than the actual cost? And if it is so, then that particular heuristic value is admissible. Otherwise it is not. Is this column clear? That's what you have done here. Let's consider five also from five. What is the way we can reach three? Right? There are two ways to reach five. Yeah? All of you. Yeah? You can you can do these calculations later. First, you know, let's solve this one problem. Then I have exercises for you to do. Let's say I'm in five. First of all, how many ways are there for me to go to three? Yeah? Real quick. From five, I can go to one and then directly to three. Or I can go from five to one from one to two and then to three. There are two parts. Calculate their cost. What is the minimum? One is 75 plus 125. Right? What is the cost? 75 plus 125. One 95. Right? No, not one 95. Yeah, it is 200. Right? What about the other part? Five to one is 75. One to two is another 70. That is one 45. One 45 plus nine 50 is one 95. So one 95 is the small. So I know that if I am in five in one 95 podcast, I can reach my goal. No three. That is my actual cost. What is my heuristic? My heuristic is one 90. So one 90 is less than one 95 is true. So this is admissible. So for every node, I have to calculate and I have to see if that heuristic is admissible or not. In this example, I see that for this one, this one, this one, this one, this one. It is yes, but for this node, no, it was not admissible. Because this actual cost is itself 50, but my heuristic was telling me 60. So it is not admissible. Right? So we have to compute for each node. And when I have a mistake like this, when it is not admissible, I'll go back to my SME or my domain expert. And so you know what you made mistakes? Your heuristic is not admissible because my actual cost itself here is 50, but you have given me 60 here. You will course corrected. Right? That is what I meant. Right? We won't deploy this heuristics directly. We will actually make sure that whatever heuristics at least in the sample problem that we have taken. For all of the heuristics, they are admissible. And if it is not admissible, we want to go back and correct it or choose a better SME. Right? We'll consider we'll talk about a lot of this later today on what are the different ways to design and all of that. But this is what is admissibility. Is it clear for all of you? I'll repeat real quick. What is admissibility? Right? Yeah, we should write it like that. Yeah. That's what we have to do. We have to write 60 less than 50 is, you know, false. Right? So we can also correct that right away. If you want, for example, the heuristic value was 60. The actual value is 50. Right? 60 less than 50 is no. That is why this is not admissible. Perfect. Thank you. Let's quickly again, you know, recap what is admissibility. How do you compute it? Right? For every node. For every node given in the graph. Right? You will start with from that particular node to the goal node. What is the actual path cost? What is the minimum actual path cost? Right? You will enumerate all. Like for example, from four. From four, there is, you know, different ways to go to three. Right? From four, I can go to five, five to one, then to three. Or from four to five, five to one, one, two, two, two, three. You will enumerate them. For each of them, you will calculate the actual path cost. And then you will know the minimum path cost. Right? And understand which path, which is the minimum path cost. Then you will compare that with your heuristic. And if your heuristic is small, then the actual path cost, then it is fine. Then it is admissible. Otherwise, it is not. There's a question. Everything is possible as far as I know. Yeah, everything is, everything depends on this direction of the graph. You don't be confused. Is it compulsory to adopt the admissibility even when the difference is very minor? Yes. That is a given property. Right? It has to be there. If you don't want an optimal solution, then it is okay. But if you are looking for optimality in your problem, then you have to make sure that your heuristics given to you are admissible. Right? Yes. Even if nodes are repeated, you have to consider all the different paths. Right? So first of all, nodes will not be repeated. Right? Edges can be repeated. There can be bidirectional edges. But why would nodes be repeated? Right? It will be more like a self loop and so on. Right? Nodes should not be repeated ideally in these type of problems. If you look at a traveling salesman, why will the same country come again and again? Right? Edges can repeat, but not the nodes themselves. Right? Yeah. What if a goal is not reachable? Yeah. If it is not reachable, then the actual path cause becomes infinity. Then anyway, your heuristic will be less than infinity. Is that correct? Yeah. Can there be a path to one, two, four, five, one, three? Assuming that this is an actual is less. Why ask is that one is repeating two times? No, you have to stop with the goal. Right? So why why you are going again from three, right? Yeah. So you should not go back and forth. Right? Then that will definitely be not optimal. Right? So you should not consider those intermediates and so on. Right? You should only consider one single, you know, path. So one to two or one to five again, why you should be going to one? You should not take such path. It should be a straightforward clean path from the given node to the goal node. Right? So if it's a self loop and so on, why would you self loop again? Right? So that's anyway adding more cost. You should not be doing that. Right? So far so good. All of you. Admissibility. Yeah. Yes, no, maybe it just give a thumbs up. It's a simple straightforward way. Give an a graph, take each node, calculate the actual cost till the goal node minimum actual cost. If the heuristic is less than it is admissible, otherwise not. Right? No, these arrows are not bidirectional. They are all directional. For example, I can go from three to four, but I cannot go from four to three. Right? You have to calculate regardless of the node. Come, you will have to calculate the admissible property. Right? We have to do it for all because first of all, you are just in the design phase. You are in the experimentation phase. So node count will not be like, you know, thousands and so on. Right? Because you are not designing just the heuristic and evaluating how good or bad that heuristic is. So the nodes number of nodes will not be too much. Right? So that's the first property. What about the second property? Right? The second property is consistency. What does that mean? That is about these triangular inequality. Right? So if you consider this particular node one, node two, and in between them, you have 70. Right? So if I subtract the heuristic cost of this one with this heuristic cost of two, right? That should be less than or equal to this actual cost. Right? That's what mean I'll repeat again. So this is not really relevant. I'm just showing you how to derive this particular formula. So if you consider H of 1 minus H of 2, that should be less than or equal to the actual cost of 1 to 2. If you substitute this, what is H of 1? H of 1 is 80. What is H of 2? That is 60. 80 minus 60. It can also be absolute values. No problem. Right? So this 80 minus 60 is less than or equal to the actual cost 70. I can actually rewrite this. Right? How I can rewrite this? I can take this to the other side. H of n remains. It should be less than or equal to this G of 1 comma 2. This will go into that side as plus. And I can generalize this. I can put I here the same I I put here. This is J. This is J. This is what is a formula here. Right? So you don't need to really get to know this, but this is just the intuition behind how we have created this formula. This formula now says you pick up any particular edge. Right? Any particular edge. And then the heuristic value of I. Right? Should be less than or equal to the actual path caused between those two nodes. Right? The adjacent nodes, whatever that edge was connecting with the heuristic value of J. Let's consider this. Let's consider from 5 to 1. Right? So 5 to 1 if you consider what is the heuristic value of 5? It is 190. Right? That's what I've substituted here. This is 190. It should be less than or equal to what is the actual cost between this i comma j. I is nothing but my 5 and J is nothing but my 1. Right? I'm considering this edge alone, right? Which is leading me into 1. Right? I'm considering thus that is 75 plus what is h of J? Right? What is my h of J? Yeah, anyone that is nothing but me 80. 80 plus 75 is 155. So this 190 less than or equal to 155 is false. Correct? So this particular edge that we see here which takes me from 5 to 1, this is violating the property of consistency. Right? Let's do it for another one. Right? Let's consider this particular, you know, 1 to 2. In simple, let me just show you graphically. It will be even more clear for you. Very simple. First of all, look for this. What is the heuristic value of this one? Okay? It's very important. Right? Look at this. Heuristic value of this one should be less than or equal to these two. What is this actual cost? Plus the heuristic of two. Right? Let me repeat. What is the heuristic of one that should be less than or equal to this actual cost? Plus the heuristic of this. So let's put it into practice. So heuristic of one that is 80. That should be less than or equal to this 70 plus heuristic cost of two. What is that? That is 60. So 70 plus 60, which is 130. So 80 less than or equal to 130 is true. So this particular edge 1 to 2 is consistent. For three, you don't need to check anything because that's the goal itself. Right? You don't need to do anything. Yeah? Let's consider for four. For four. Again, this is not, you know, exhaustive. Let me first tell you. For what are all the incoming edges? There is one coming from one to four. I'll have to check for this edge. There's one more coming from two to four. I'll have to check for that. I'll have to come for three to four. That also I will check. But we are not cleverly writing three to four here because I know that this heuristic cost of three zero. Right? Because that's the goal. So zero less than or equal to 100 plus anything will be still satisfying. That's why I'm not written here. But let's do it for these two. For one to four. Right? First things first, what I'll consider the heuristic of one should be less than or equal to this hundred plus heuristic of four. So 80 less than or equal to hundred plus what is the heuristic of four that is 200. So 100 plus 200 is 300. 80 less than or equal to 300 is two. Let's consider the second edge this one from two to four. What it is going? Can you tell me what we are checking? We are checking the heuristic of two. Right? That should be less than or equal to the 75 plus heuristic of four. So heuristic of two is 60 from here. That 60 should be less than or equal to this 75 plus heuristic of four, which is 200 to 75. This is also true. Similarly for fifth node also if you see this notice here, what are all incoming? There is this edge. There is this edge. There is this edge. Right? So this three to five. We are not considering because this heuristic is zero. Right? So zero less than or equal to any of this is any way true. Right? So we are just you know not considering we are going to consider for this two to five and four to five. Let's consider two to five. What are we checking? Right? So here we are I'm in the fifth node. So we don't want to check from you know three to four and all that. Right? Shiva. When we are in fifth node, we are checking who are all incoming to five. So three to five we can check, but anyway that will be two. Right? Because this heuristic is zero. Zero should be less than or equal to any of this. Because we are dealing with positives. So let's consider this two to five node. What we are checking now? The heuristic of two should be less than or equal to this one twenty five plus heuristic of five. What is the heuristic of two that is sixteen sixties less than or equal to this one twenty five plus this one. Three fifty. So it is true. Similarly for this four to five heuristic of four should be less than or equal to this fifty plus one ninety. Fifty plus one ninety is two forty and this is you know heuristic of four is two hundred right from here. This is also right. So so far are we good? So if you just draw an edge it should be very clear right? So you start from a node you are questioning yourself. The heuristic of that node should be less than or equal to the actual path cost to go to that end of that other side of that edge plus its heuristic cost. If that is satisfied then that particular edge is basically consistent again you are checking for all the edges right? In this example I didn't explicitly write here for example three to four or three to five because it will satisfy because this is zero right? So if you do that again for each of the edge you will get to know if this is consistent or not. If both of these properties are true right then it means that your a star will be optimal. So can someone now tell me what is you know coming sure it has this question. Consistency property help is improving performance it is helping meaning it is a necessary condition. If you have a graph with edges where it is not consistent it is not guaranteed that it will give you optimal. But if all the edges are consistent and admissible then it will guarantee you that a star will be optimal right? Why are these properties true? Why do these satisfy always lead to optimization? Think about it. If you are never over estimating right? If you are never over estimating your heuristic is never misleading you. Always you are going closer to your solution right? Similarly for consistency right? If you check for triangular inequality always you are going towards the goal you are not getting misled by you know some heuristic value. If this heuristic value is not less than the path cost right? So remember this wherever it is false then what is happening? Think about it. Progmoor this one. If you consider this particular edge my heuristic is telling 190 but my actual cost plus the heuristic of this itself is 155. You get the point right? So I should not trust this particular edge because this trust you know if I trust this edge he is misleading me correct? Because from 5 itself right? It is telling me that you know I will take you in 190. If I take the actual path along with my you know heuristic of 1 that is actually better. So I should be taking that and not directly believing on this guy. You get my point right? So if I had believed this 190 is less than or equal to 155 is not true right? So both of them are actually the similar property but consistency check for the edges and admissibility checks for the over estimation between the you know heuristic values. But if both of them are satisfied there is one thumb rule that you can deduce that they are taking me towards the goal and they are not going to mislead me. That is what these two properties internally mean right? And it need not be ordered and so on right? Nothing necessary to be ordered and so on. And for negative values there are you know there are different cases for example you might get you know stuck in a loop and so on. So only the first attempt you will try to see and you will stop it there and there are very rare cases where you will have negative values right in very unique problems only you will have negative edges. Otherwise all of these are actual path cost or move cost and so on so negative is very rare right? So far so good. We don't remove the edges and so on we go back to the SME and tell that your heuristics are not you know admissible or consistent. There are some places where it is failing so you come up with some better heuristics. In today's class we'll keep looking at more of that right? Don't worry about that. So for one to two the consistency is 60 less than 150. So let's take one to two. So for one to two what you will do? Heuristic of one that is 80 should be less than or equal to the 70 plus heuristic of two which is 60 right? That's what we have done and it is satisfying 80 less than or equal to 130 right? For both you have taken two to four not considering three to four but there could be large no we are considering like you know we are considering three to four also. But this will always satisfy because heuristic of three zero zero less than or equal to 100 plus 200 is going to be always true that is where I'm not written but we are considering. Yeah. All of them should be optimal that's correct yeah. See first of all it's not about accepting not accepting and so on it is about optimal solution or not right? You have some of these edges as non optimal you might end up a star will take you to a solution which is not optimal that is what we mean right? So what makes a good heuristic as we told it should be admissible it should be consistent it should be informative. These three properties were very important just read this it should never over estimate the true cost that is what admissibility says. Consistency says it should satisfy the triangular inequality across the neighboring nodes meaning the adjacent nodes right? Otherwise you know there's no point right if the actual itself is better if the actual place the heuristic of their destination node. If it is better than why should I believe on you know the parents or H of ice equality like this one. You get the point rate if car H is better right then this is you know not giving me a proper solution right it is inconsistent that is what he want. And then informative it should be close to the actual cost right the heuristic that gives values closer to the true cost helps a star avoid unnecessary exploration right? Otherwise you'll go here and there and then you know you made end up in our previous problem of that are rather than book arrest go ahead and check if it is admissible or heuristic for all of those values right. If both heuristics are admissible right so in this case let's suppose two things are there there are two heuristics for us right in a problem you can have multiple heuristics also I go to her when free he has given me H of one and I go to you know God of he has given me another right I will also compute between them which one should I choose right if H2 of n is greater than H1 of n right right the H2 is usually better because it gives a stronger estimate right. If those are more closer right between those two I'll prefer which one of them is you know better right so there are also some you know differences between what is a good and poor you know heuristic and some thumb rule for you is a good heuristic is like a helpful guide right. It does not lie about the distance but it gives enough direction to avoid exploring every way right is a valid case H of n equal to zero for more than one node no not really right so if you have multiple heuristics as zero then it means it you have multiple goals in the problem but in your problem if there is only one goal only that goal node should have zero. Yeah cool so there were these exercises I hope you have solved it a star also had given so this was all pending from the last class right so that's pretty much but I'll have more exercises today where you will practice finding out you know admissible and consistency. There's a question here okay the question is do we consider direct informing or indirect incoming as well yeah so direct incoming right so if you consider direct indirect also is already considered right if you consider a graph your. Looking for who all are coming into me right so if you consider that all the other parts also will get you know consider it right. Cool so let's continue from there right so there are a lot of discussions around this you know we will have today also if the domain expert can go wrong or you know can become worse and so on but focus on today you will get a better idea right it's not about you know always going for optimality it's not. Depends on is the consistency in heuristic okay in some cases if you can't find any of that then you will still go with you know what you have because at least something is better than you know an uninformed search which is not giving you anything right cool so we already had a recap of what we did in the last class so all of you if a graph is given will you be able to find. Admissibility and consistency I repeat admissibility is about you know all about not over estimating so you will you know go ahead and try to you know find out the actual path cost the minimal path cost and compare it with your heuristic for consistency we told for any age you pick up an age and you start you know thinking about H of I should be less than or equal to the actual cost plus H of J right for every age if you do that. That is about consistency cool so now we'll start today we'll be talking about designing heuristic do you know a little bit of relax problems and others there's a small reference paper I'll show you and I'll quickly talk about that and then we will go into local search algorithms local search algorithms has a bunch of them will only look at one of them today right and it's variance. So again a little bit of theory around same thing again for people who have still not got that intuition there are a bunch of slides will walk through them quickly so a practical rule of thumb or educated guess or an intuition is what is a heuristic and it's derived from that you know Greek word which is to find or to discover right so the insight is that we want to prioritize exploration of parts that seem most promising rather than exploring all the possibilities right it's like using a compass and a map in a maze instead of wondering. And then aimlessly let's what a heuristic is and as heuristic functions determine the search strategies and thereby their complexities it is important that we either you know identify better heuristic functions while maintaining admissible and consistent constraints as we already discussed. First of all you are going to an expert you're asking them that this is my problem this is my whole situation this is my goal state initial state problem you know you will give a bunch of details you already know what all to give that SME can you name some of that let's say I am the SME you are coming up to me for some you know heuristics what all would you give me that is what we discussed in the initial glasses. How you explain me or problem right okay source node goal node transition node all that was called something what is that. Yes a right problem solving agent means you will give me what is the initial node goal node transition node cost all that is that enough for me or is there other things also that you will give yeah what is that existing story Krishna says I'll tell the existing story but in what way yeah people talk in some language right what is that. That's why all the classes are important in the initial classes the moment we started very good P.A.S. I'll talk about what is the you know performance environment actuator sensor for that problem and then is that good enough for me or are there other things also needed for me as an SME before I started advising you he is is needed good what else. Think about it we learned about environment types right you told about dynamic stochastic is it you know partially observable observable and all of that detail is also important for me right. So there are three main categories you have to tell me P.A.S. you have to give me details about your environment right you should then talk about my problem solving agent which means what is your initial node what is your goal node what is you know performance and all that and sometimes you might also tell me that I have a constraint I am going only with the goal oriented architecture we also learned about architecture of agents right simple reflexive utility based goal based and all that so all the story you have to give me. And I will give you heuristics and with that heuristics you will check if whatever I am giving is admissible and consistent or not like we will go to two to three other experts also all of them will give you some heuristics you will compare and you know have a look at you know how things are in one right now let's say suppose you go to you know mean actually you also go to nearest same problem you have given them same P.A.S. environment everything you have explained they have given you. So let's say you know you have to give me the heuristics right let's say suppose mean actually heuristics contains everything every information that nearest also is giving then which one would you choose in other words I am telling that mean actually heuristic is a superset of nearest heuristic right which one you choose you will choose mean action not any one of them that's a very important distinction because mean all that that nearest is give plus something extra and extra is always good info informed search because some other additional insights are there so I choose with that that's one case in another case right let's say suppose that that's one way to go about it another way let's say suppose the branch factor right branch factor means how much we are exploring the same problem they are giving you same heuristics same heuristics meaning for the same problem but in mean actually I'm exploring at any given node let's suppose three nodes I'm exploring but let's say in nearest I'm exploring five nodes which one would I pick them exactly this is what you know the next point is to share right we will try to take someone who's not exploring more because more exploration means more cost right it is the same problem and it is you know they are giving me some heuristics and both of them let's say are admissible also and consistent also yeah you get my point right same problem have given both of them have given their own heuristics I evaluated them for admissible and consistency both of them are admissible also and consistent also then wound I pick right I will check for okay which one of them is covering you know is is a relationship between supersets subset and so on let's say they are also not both of them are you know giving unique information both of them are admissible and consistent then you'll check okay which one of them has a lower branch factor meaning which one of them is exploring lesser but still giving me the you know correct answers correct answers meaning the heuristics that they have given to so I don't want to explore more that's one aspect in some places right you might be like okay like why do you discard one of them and choose one let's try to use both of their heuristics that's also possible right so let's say suppose someone has given me like I have one of them which is H1 I have another which is H2, one was Niresh, one was Minatch. Some approaches, some others for some problems, you can go with one of them as I told you can decide on, if something is a superset, if H1 covers everything that H2 covers, then I don't need H2. I can decide on those. But if both of them are unique, both of them are consistent, admissible, and the branch factor of H2s, small, then I can prefer that. But sometimes people might want, okay, let's take best of both, both of them have given both of them are admissible and consistent. Why should we ignore? Let's consider both. Meaning, I can just do a place, I can consider both of them. But I will not just directly do a place, I will actually look at, okay, who is more expert in this? We actually, and you know, Niresh, both of them have given me. But let's say suppose, we actually has a lot of experience, past records, very good, right? I've known that they are, they're doing really good. So I'll have a wait for them. I'll put an alpha here. I'll put say a beta here. Some multiplication factor. And this alpha could be, let's say, suppose two for Niresh, and this beta could be, let's say, suppose one point over one point three, right? You're getting it right. I'm putting some weights that, okay, this person's USD, whatever the game, let's multiply with that. This person's will multiply with a slightly a small value. And this whole thing, let's consider. These are also some techniques where people can employ where you can have multiple heuristics coming into play also, right? Sometime later in this course, we will discuss about such situations. And that's also perfectly fine. You are guided by, you know, multiple heuristics. So what are all the other ways of choosing as we discussed? Firstly, effective branch factor, right? The heuristics should not explore everything possible. It should generate admissible heuristics. We'll come to relax problems and so on, right? Learning experience also will come, okay? But before all this, let's take a minute pause. And can you come up with some heuristics? This is a problem, which is a, you know, tile problem, where I start with this state, right? I want this to be my goal state, where this should be my one, two, three, four. In this order, it should be there. And I can only do the left right, right? I can bring two down or six to the left, five to the right, three to the up and one. Whatever move I can do, I can do that. But eventually I should get this as my goal state, right? Can you propose some heuristics? That is, given a particular state, I should be able to evaluate how close or how far it is from the goal. Right? We've been had a question. All of you can think mean well, it takes some questions. Super sett mean. What else is there in heuristics, which is not there? Exactly. Like whatever they are giving as information to me, right? In the heuristic, that is what we mean. Super sett subset, meaning whatever they told me, have they covered everything that the other person also told? Yeah, also possible to combine both the models and build R1. She was more reliable. Yes, you can do. That's what I just told, right? You can actually, you know, put some weights and so on. Okay, let's come back to this. Yeah, propose some, you know, heuristics for me. You're getting the question, right? So this is my state. I can have any state in between also. This is my goal state. I'm asking you that what could be some heuristics, right? Meaning that heuristics should tell me how far or close I am to this goal state, right? Provide at least two heuristics for this problem. One of them could be the number of misplaced tiles. Are we all good here? The number of misplaced tiles is also heuristic. Correct. In this case, if you see, right? Seven is misplaced. Two is misplaced. Four is misplaced. I think everything is misplaced, right? For any given state, it you should be able to calculate this heuristic. Correct. And let's say if this heuristic is zero, then what does it indicate? If the number of misplaced tiles are zero, then it means I'm in the goal state. Very good. If the number of misplaced tiles is just one, what does it indicate? I'm close to the goal. If the number of misplaced tiles is eight or seven and so on, then you are way away from the goal state. A lot of changes are needed. Correct. Very good. So this is a possible heuristic. And it is this admissible. This problem is this admissible meaning. Will this heuristic ever overestimate the actual number of misplaced tiles? So let's consider for this example. How many misplaced tiles are there in this? Very good. Few of you already got a hand of it. So in this case, nine of them are eight of them are there misplaced. So can this number be more than eight? No. Or if you consider the blank, it is still nine. Nine of them are misplaced. But this heuristic, the number of misplaced tiles can never be 10. So this is admissible meaning you are never overestimating. This is one possible heuristic. What is some other possible heuristic? Some of Manhattan distances of tiles from their respective goal positions. Somebody already had told that very good. But first let's you know try to consider this. What is the Manhattan distance? Right. Let's say for one. Right. This one is currently here. And where it should have been in the goal in the goal it is here in this position. How many steps does it take to go from this to here? I should take you know one two three. I can go either this way or I can go one two three. Otherwise it is going to take me three steps for me to reach that position. That is the Manhattan distance of this three. Right. So this one was the first heuristic answer. Eight tiles are misplaced. Right. If you consider the blank also, it should be nine then. So this one was the first heuristic answer. Eight tiles are misplaced. And then also it should be nine then. For second one, I'm considering for the number one Manhattan distance is one two three. Right. Similarly what about two two is currently here, but in goal state it is here. So how many is the Manhattan distance just one step? If you don't if it can come here, then it's the one. So that is one. What about three three is currently here. It'll take me Manhattan distance of one two or in this direction one two. That's the smallest right. Is the difference between where that number is in goal versus where you are here and with allowed operations. You can't do diagonal and all that. So it's only one two right for three. It is two. So all of you got a hang of it right. How we are getting these values. Let's consider for eight. It is currently here in the goal. It is here. So how many steps away one and two. So that is made so if you add all of that that's 18. That's your other heuristic. Right. So for any given problem, I will be able to come up with a bunch of heuristics and is this admissible. Is this value admissible will it ever give me more than all the possible you know. Right. It is also admissible right. Think about it. Manhattan distance of tiles for each of the value will it ever over estimate. This one to you know it's correct position. We told three will it ever give me five or so. No rate. It will not. So as we're considering the Manhattan and that is already the shortest to that goal state. It will not. But let's suppose we have a bunch of heuristics right. I have in this example itself. I have two of them. Then what should I do. Right. I should go further. I should check and so on. Right distance for a tile can never be more than four. That's correct. Cool. So this is just a small example you can take. I just told you two heuristics so you I told you but you can come up with more also. But you get the idea right will do more problems today and it will be even more clear right. For a given problem you will have you can have multiple heuristics right. There is going to be different so. If show shall we always. Take the least distance for calculating yes you have to take the least right. I don't want to take the max but in some problems let's say if the problem itself is about maximization then in such problems you might take max also I'll show more examples today in Queen's problem and all that it will be more clear. We can't make blanket statements that always you will go for you know a min or max right. So for four can we have only one instead of two mentioned so where is four here in this four is here in my goal. I have it here in this whole problem. The diagonal is not allowed you can't move this style diagonally so I should either come from this four I can go here and then here or I can come here and here so in either cases it's going to be. Cool. Yeah. We'll come there which is better and so on we will assess later but how will you assess you know that right first was admissible second was consistency right and then we will go even further and try to look at you know some of these other properties of you know the branch factor. Or you know how much is it generating and so on so we'll come to that yeah so for now let's not jump to you know who's better and so on but now we know after this activity that for a given problem I am able to come up with heuristics right. And as we told earlier many you know researchers these days don't just go with one of them they try to combine multiple heuristics because all of the heuristics are you know important they are giving you some. Insight right if you go with Manhattan that doesn't mean the number of misplaced styles are bad this is also a good metric a good informed decision that how far or how close you are to the good right so I discard it so let's combine both and use right those are also you know thought process that people are these days thinking. Right so how to come up with a different heuristics for different that's the whole task so for this problem we came up with two your friend also suggested you Kleedian that's also correct. So we'll practice I'll give you more exercises also and that's an art right we will talk about more in the next few slides there's a separate slide for your question. Humans laterly search blindly we use educated guesses your systems also need estimates to guide search and these estimates are heuristics right we already looked at a bunch of examples and you know so on and you already know what is heuristics and all that right and why we are again and again stressing on this inform sir. Sure is taken so on is that first of all the core task is a must solve complex problems by searching through vast of an infinite state spaces right for example a 15 puzzle problem has 1.3 trillion possible states and if you employ and informed search like BFS DFS and so on you need tremendous computing power and even with that these many possibilities are very you know complex to go through and find the gold state. So that is why we want you know informed ones right so this exactly what we're telling it's inefficient and it'll take you know very very long time it'll take millions of unnecessary paths and so on so we want something which is more promising right and that is why we go for informed strategies. We looked at two of them already in this course greedy best for search and you know a star so in greedy did we make use of H of N and G of N did we use both or what did we use actually we should remember that not G of N very good yeah so we did not use actual cost itself it will go only with heuristic right but it was not it is fast because you are not doing any computation you are just willing on heuristic but it might not be always of it. In a star we considered both of them right and there are some other mild techniques you can look at this even in the book there's some theory concepts around how can we do some pruning you might have learnt in other courses also that good heuristics eliminate irrelevant branches from exploration we already learned this of course when we did that are art to book arrest and so on at every stage you are picking one of them which is the least cost and only explain it. Exploring that node indirectly what does that mean you are not exploring the others and that is what is pruning pruning is nothing but cutting down some branches and not exploring them because they are not promising correct so by doing that we also get performance boost right it significantly reduces the nodes explode saving time and memory and because you are doing this you're also having you know your branch factors are less right you don't you know explore all of them so that's better. Some real life applications right where informed searches are also important like pathfinding right in game you know right for example that blue the blue which defeated Gary Casper once they they had heuristic functions it was not just you know purely exploring the state space of what are all the chess moves it did have heuristics of course in robotics right so for motion planning and so on you need heuristics and in logistics right in all shipping and so on. You you need heuristics and that's a you know informed guidance than just willing on pure costs right and you can also have complex variations of these right for example iterative deepening a star right this is something that you learned in the webinar did you. I heard someone telling ideas right you should have learned it is not directly there in your course but it's a teaser that yes that's also possible there are other variants like. Simplified memory bounded a star right so the more of memory optimization is done right combining heuristics right this is exactly what I was telling you right do you remember that if you have multiple heuristics right Nirae is also given minakshi also has given can we just combine both of them give them some weights and use them that's also impossible thing learning heuristics a lot of people where you know interested in this part even from the last class we will learn about this in the next few slides. Right I'll come back to this what learning heuristic means and how we can do that right we'll discuss this in slightly more depth in a bunch of slides but before that someone had asked me this question that you're giving me a problem how do I come up with this heuristic it how can you know that right there are these skills needed right first things first the foundation you already know that which is understanding heuristic properties such as admissible. Heuristic properties such as admissibility consistency and domain dominance in your book there's a little bit of dominance you can have a look at it's a very small concept it is all about that superset subset concept right if if some of them dominates that whole you know values you can ignore the other lower you know ones and so on. So that's basically the foundation whenever you are designing a heuristic you should keep these in mind right you should not over estimate things and so on right the second one is the design skill. That is creating effective heuristic functions for novel a problems and domains it's a it's a purely design thing you should experiment you should have experience designing heuristics for fairly common problems and so on and then the implementation part. Building and analyzing search algorithms like a star ID a star SM star and so on if you actually implement them you get even more no great idea and for your own unique problems in your industry you would design implement try to see how it performs. And first thing first all that we are discussing so far is at the design stage right we are designing heuristics we are testing it we're seeing how good it performs and we are putting it in an actual problem statement in a test environment of sorts and you know what I'm saying. So that's how you're trying to see how good or bad it is right and then you will again I trade back you'll go back to the semis okay. It all look good it was admissible it was consistent I put it in the test environment and then I'm not getting good results so what can we do about it so you'll again you know take another bigger sample from the test you know again try to come up with new heuristics it's a design skill it's not that you know you always go with one algorithm or one solution it it works right so your role is become architects of intelligence search building more efficient and keepable a systems that can tackle real world complexity so in a lot of your assignments in this course even in some questions you will be asked to design heuristics right what are all possible heuristics and even in this class I'll give you more and more examples where we will try to come up with our own heuristics right so far so good all of you. We're on the same page with respect to what is heuristics how to come up with some heuristics evaluation of those with those two properties and so on. Okay so now let's address that other elephant in the room which many people were telling that why are we designing heuristics can the machine itself start creating its own heuristics the answer is yes that is possible okay so we learnt about all this already that is the branch factor of these heuristics should be low a good heuristics should be fast to compute it should be admissible consistent informative and accurate right yeah we take a break yeah I'll take in five minutes and I'm going to take a break. I'll take in five minutes I'll complete this you know part and then we'll take a break we'll come to relax problems that is what is the next slides. So what we're trying to tell is heuristics where so far I was always telling you that SME should give you correct but let's say suppose they are very unexplored novel problems where experts are not able to give a good job right then what can we do they are multiple ways to go about it. One is if that problem itself is quite novel complex we don't know much about it we can reduce that problem size it's all borrowed from computer science concepts only right in theoretical computer science we keep doing this we create a simpler version of the game or problem by removing some rules for example if tiles could teleport or move through each other the puzzle could be easy to solve the cost of solving this easy version becomes our heuristic for the hard version. You get the point right it's just a simple analogy but the idea here of relaxed problems is you try to solve a slightly smaller version or a more relaxed version of that problem where you're removing that constraint for example in this type problem I was telling you that diagonal is not allowed right that four could have not gone there right you remember that slide right I told this work cannot directly come here because that was a constraint in this problem that you can only go up down left right of this empty type you know what I'm saying is that I'm not going to do that. It's empty type you can't do diagonal but let's say I allow that which means I'm removing some constraint from the original problem so that easier version of that problem is called the relaxed version I'll try to solve that relaxed version and then have a look at the harder problem that's one way. The second way is pattern databases meaning we solve a small part of the puzzle first just like you know let's say four tile or you know eight tile learns one and save every possible configuration and it's cost in a database while the AI is searching it looks up the answer in the table and for those of you who have done you know data structures or algorithm design courses what technique is this you already do something store the value and again and again reuse that value by reference. So I'm referring to that is it greedy dynamic programming or what is that very good dynamic programming right is not just straight caching or look up it's more of dynamic programming you actually saw some smaller instances of the problem store it in memory and again and again look at it that's one way and the system can do that for you or you can have landmarks meaning imagine you are using a GPS it's too hard to calculate the path between every single street obviously right like every single instance is tough. So you do instead the system picks up landmarks in your own you know area when you talk about you know GPS if you act as a GPS then explain your friend how do you do that you tell that you know wherever you are you come to this mall or you come to the signal then I'll guide you right you can do that also here right into the system picks a landmark city and precalculates the distance to them right by comparing where you are to the landmark the AI can estimate the distance to your destination. If you have known friends who do this you know what is that's called Sudoku right Sudoku or you have these you know colored puzzles right they all have this technique of whatever configuration you give them right they will come to one landmark position and from there they know that within five or within four steps they can reach the solution have you seen that you have all these competitions right where within minutes people saw you know ruby Rubik's cube how do they do that because in Rubik's cube they have a lot of these lines. And marks whatever state you give you they will reach a landmark and from landmark they know that within 18 steps within 10 steps they'll reach the goal right so this also you can use right the same slide again you have an original problem right you remove some problems right for example you ignore time movement constraint I can move anywhere right then the heuristic becomes number of missplaced tiles right another variation could be allowed tiles to move through each other or maybe diagonal and all. For that one problem I'm telling you what could be examples of relaxed problems right then also you can use Manhattan distance in that also right so that's one way that's about relaxing the problem meaning you eliminate certain constraints so that a simpler version of that problem is sold you first all that simpler version then go for the higher version right again some examples of that landmark and you know things are given but we take a pause here we'll come back to this learning from experience. And then we will you know take it forward take a five minute break will come back in 31 and then we'll go through this right another few things and then we'll be done with these concepts and we'll start learning about that local search. We'll take some questions I'll be still there so solving Rubik's cube is a memory trick I don't know how to solve though yeah it is a memory trick there are also tutorials on YouTube yeah you can keep watching them and you can master it it's it's purely a trick and it's nothing to do with you know. It's all about these patent tricks they'll come to this landmark it's actually this only it's actually based on landmarks so whatever configuration you give them there are a lot of landmarks available and they're all different schools of thought right they'll come to that state if you are in that state they know that within the next 15 seconds I can solve it right because they know the moves and that's it. And then our proper tutorials there is an algorithm for this right computers also can solve Rubik's cube and it's all about you know L3 is green and you know this particular is white and so on so it's pure you know memory heuristics and so on. Are these algorithm used for state change in deep reinforcement yeah we'll come there next slide has about you know almost right. So in some of these learning things yes I'm it but initially the ones we spoke about is about someone some human being is giving you then you take that heuristic you validated you put it into test and how good or bad it is then go back to them and do and let's say you have come up with a good heuristic you deploy it then you don't keep changing when the actual AI system is working in life you will keep considering only that heuristic but again we are talking about. The AI of 1980s 90s in the next few slides I'll tell you where you can actually you know on the goal so do some things when one of the technique was this right patent databases. You can have like a schedule job or something where every few days whatever your AI had done you know maybe configure like a meta you know information score it in some database you know in live itself right maybe like a nightly job and the other times it will start you know. Looking at the database instead of you know relying on that original heuristics alone. There are many big ones which can be solved in traditional yes yes yeah. So there are also other types of you know braille you know Robick since one so. We have a friend here in India who is fully visually. Yeah so there is a braille version of the Rubik's cube also and he has done Asia book of records and he's now trying for the world record for in the category of you know a blind person solving Rubik's cube in record time right so. He solves it in less than a minute right so. You can he'll give the Rubik's cube to you you can just you know rearrange however you want you give it to him and within minutes you'd be able to you know solve it. It's the same technique again the braille based thing has its own you know landmarks and how to go from there so it's all the same. Yes that's same the leap on yeah it's the same. So while you do your assignments you'll get a more stronger hold of heuristics because for a given problem you will try to think about heuristics okay what all can be heuristics and then you know try to implement it and so on and. That will be a good exercise for you to practice these concepts. Thank you. Okay it's 931 so let's get started so this is one of the last techniques that I mentioned that learning from experience experience meaning the AI is experience right can I learn to be better. So I learned to be better searcher on its own yes that is first is metal level learning meaning this is when the AI thinks about its own thinking right it looks at the search pass it took and learns to avoid deadens or unhave full states in the future right so lot of people from the last class kept on asking about this right this is what it is it can use some sort of metal level learning and these are all very problem specific right for one specific problem what could be its metal level learning they're all. There are general algorithms which can be applied for any uninformed their problem specific right it could also have some feature learning and I can solve thousands of random puzzles in that example itself and tell let's say supposed to go or let's say suppose a type of you know Robick's cube or a tile puzzle thousands of random configurations it tries to solve and look for patterns it might notice that certain features like how many tiles are out of order are great predictors of the final cost. And combine them into a single mathematical formula to get it search right both of them are possible right so patent databases also are one form of learning heuristics from experience because whatever you learned this metal learning and all of this you put it into your database or you just pre compute and you know solve smaller problems put it in database often refer to that later right and someone was also asking about you know are these things used in my you know deep neural networks and so on so yes you train. Deep neural networks to predict the cost to the goal based on the current state representation yet what we mean right you use a neural network itself to create a heuristic is also possible and of course you know they're heavily used in game applications where all these learning heuristics becomes more important because gaming is a good area because the state space is very large right so all the possibilities that configuration can be in that's a lot so over there. Heuristics becomes important but manually designing heuristics for these problems are even tricky so we go ahead with this learning exp you know heuristics right so far so good yes no maybe we'll take a bunch of other examples on heuristic design heuristic evaluation and so on right and then we will go to our next part of local search. Yeah so far so good all of you I don't see any responses. But in this course we don't have in depth about these you know metal level learning feature learning and so on you already have learnt in other courses about you know how to do neural networks and so on is giving you an idea that heuristic can be created by the air itself also we're not going to relay only on manual design but this being a foundational course in a lot of your assignments exam and so on. You will be asked to design a heuristic right or at least a bunch of heuristics so what's first let's have a look at this n queens problem right what is n queen problem and in the next five minutes we will be trying to create our own heuristic for this problem also. So an end queens problem this ends for it could be like you know four queen or you know eight queen and so on okay don't worry about that and it could be end queen also I've taken an example of four queen problem firstly what is this problem there is a four cross four chess board and there are four queens you have to place them in such a way that no queen is attacking each other. Let me repeat all of you very important a four cross four chess board is given to us and I'm given four queen coins I have to place them in such a way that no queen is attacking each other by attacking I mean they should not be in the same row they should not be in the same column they should not be in diagonal roles and this is one possible answer. This queen is here this queen is here here and here so what's really happening is this is not attacking anyone and nothing in this column nothing in this row nothing in this diagonal and so on right this is a n queens problem. Construct a search tree by considering one row of the board at a time state space search of relaxed problem is a super graph of original state space because of removal of restrictions right what is the second line mean so first of all this is a correct solution okay this particular question is not a problem. The top thing I have given this is the goal state meaning nobody is attacking each other okay let's say suppose I remove a constraint first of all what are the three constraints two queens cannot be in the same column two queens cannot be in the same row two queens cannot be in the diagonal which is attacking each other for example this queen cannot be here if it is here then these two will be attacking they will be in the same diagonal they will be attacking and so on it should not be like that. That is what is the original problem let's say I tell you that I am now allowing you to have multiple queens in the same column like this in this I have q3 and q1 I am allowing this to happen this configuration I'm agreeing it's okay right if I this is an example of a relaxed problem right I have removed one constraint my question is when I relax a problem will the state space increase or decrease. Carefully think about it it will increase very good because when I remove something constraint my state space will actually explode because these possibilities are also now available for me actually this configuration is not allowed in my original problem two queens cannot be in the same column but let's say I am allowing this then this is also correct I can put q3 here also rq3 here anyway I can put then that becomes you know the state space will increase. That is what here we mean the state space of relaxed problem is a super graph of the original state space because of remove of restrictions it perfect cool now what you should do if a problem like this is given right you should now come up with all of that what is PAS for this what is environment for this and what is the PAS. PAS and environment you have already solved exercises and all that you are well versed but I'm just giving you the problem solving agent which is initial state possible action transition goal and so on what is the initial state right how can you depict this initial state yeah there is a way to do that okay let me repeat that's that's a very important you know no initial state is where these queens are currently how do you depict that correct. So I will keep this as let's say of a post V1 V2 V3 V4 I'm just giving you an name it could be anything a1 also V1 V2 V3 V4 I can tell that in V1 where is that queen right in V2 where is that queen where is this here because I have only four options anyway and in which row it is right if I put 2 here right it means in the first column right here is where the third one is here. It will come there yeah there is in that discussion but you can also talk about coordinate when is correct we can put some coordinates somehow tell you know where that queen are or even better ways you can also put number here this is cell 0 cell 1 cell 2 cell 3 cell 4 cell 5 and so on so there are these 15 cells if I start from 0 you can tell that in cell number 4 this queen is there and that also you can do. Okay is it that increase in state space leads to simplification of problem yes in some sense meaning the problem has become easier but since the state space has grown what does it mean computationally is this easier not. The problem itself has become simple got it but exploring the solution space has become more because more computations needed because more space you know state space tree will come correct. Okay and what is possible action placed in any non occupied because I cannot place two queens in same place that is not possible transition model is what we are drawing here is valid meaning is that position a valid position you can't have you know super imposed or in diagonal that it should be. Non attacking right and path cost is the transition plus the valid queens and number of states possible are n factorial that n factorial is the number of possible states in such type of queen problems. Okay so now that you know the premise you know what is an end queens problem yes an end cross end board is given and in end queen are given to you you have to place them in such a way that no queens are attacking each other. Meaning they should not be in same row same column and same diagonal right okay now this is the goal state for this problem this is the whole problem premise there are some different states I have just shown you there is not just for there are many states possible and just for example showing you some three four states in the slide the question is can you come up with some possible heuristic design for this problem. Can you. Which will tell me how far or how close am I to this goal state come up with something let's see. Think about it these are the type of things that we want to you know keep you in this course you know let's forget Manhattan and all that for now directly on the problem itself you have some very good insights. Yeah bang on number of queens attacking each other right that can be a good metric right we can also tall you know claim it as you know number of conflicting pairs number of conflicting pairs could be you know one. And in reality what should be that number it should be zero if it is zero it means nobody is conflicting and you reach the goal right if it's a lot then it means you are far from the goal. That could be one could be number of non conflicting pair one could be number of conflicting pair right and it could also be on. Number of safe queens I'll give you three possible examples here I'll explain what these are carefully listen to me right. The first heuristic is the number of non conflicting pairs of queen first of all if there are four queens how many possible combinations are there. Q1 Q2 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q4 Q2 Q3 Q2 Q4 Q3 Q4 Q4. No not not really that is there is no that's the complete you know state if you go for the complete you know state space that is possible but I'm talking about between the conflicting where I was possible very good it is only six right it can be one Q1 I'm not putting Q but it's understood that there is Q1 and there is Q2 right these. Q2 can be conflicting or the first queen might be conflicting with third queen or first queen might be conflicting with the fourth queen this is possible or queen to might be conflicting with Queen 3. Because if I could to come out when it's the same as telling this one right because either ways do those two queens are attacking or I can have Q2 conflicting with four conflicting meaning they're either in the same row or same column or same diagonal. And finally I can have been three conflicting with four these are the six possible combinations where queens are conflicting or attacking each other. Yeah now it's easier right I've written it down in action right you at the point right let's say suppose I have this configuration I put Q2 as here then are they conflicting. Yes they are they're in the same column I put it here then also is conflicting I put it here then also is conflicting diagonal I put it here then also is conflicting in either cases Q1 and Q2 can conflict in this example is Q1 and Q2 conflicting. In action others in this example Q1 and Q2 they are not in the same row same column same diagonal also they're not conflict very good what else could conflict one and three for example Q3 if I put it here it will conflict if I put it here it will conflict if I put it here it will conflict if I put it here it will conflict but if I put it here it will not conflict with Q1 So, I am telling or enumerating who are all possible to conflict. Q1 and Q2 can conflict or Q1 and Q3 can conflict. Q1 and Q4 can conflict. Similarly, Q2 and Q3, if I put Q3 here, they both will conflict. If I put here it will conflict. If I put here it will conflict. If I put here it will not conflict with Q2, because they are not same diagonal, same row, same column. So, for each of these tuples, there are six possibilities. So, 2,1 is it is like telling Q2 is conflicting with Q1 or Q1 with conflicting Q2 are both the same. So, I am not repeating them. So, these are the six possible ways where they are conflict. So, far so good. No, we should not add constraints and so on. The original problem just says that you only have this case where they should not be in same row, same column or same time. This should not attack. That is all. You add new constraints with them. That is a different problem altogether. You are introducing a new variant of the problem. So, far so good. Yes, no. Are we all on the same page with respect to what the problem is? The problem is there is a chess board, 4 cross 4 and 4 queens given to us. It could be not just 4, it could be 8, it could be 100 cross 100 and 100 chess coins and no queen coins also. We are starting small. We can not just 4 cross 4, it could be anything. This n number is denotes n cross n board and n queen will be given to us. So with this in mind, we have six possible conflict combinations. Q1 and Q2, queen 1 and queen 2 can conflict or Q2, queen 2 and Q1 can conflict. That is possible. What are queen 1 with queen 3 or queen 3 with Q1 or queen 1 with queen 4 or queen 4 with queen 1 possible. Similarly, 2 and 3, 2 and 4, 3 and 4. Is there any other possible way where two queens are conflicting no? Now in this six, we are not talking about position. They can either conflict in row, column, diagonal or anything. We are not bothered about that. We are telling by conflict only these are possible for me. So far so good. Now the question is about can you come up with huge sticks for this problem? Given a state, I randomly gave you this state. Can you now give me how good or bad this state is with respect to my goal state? Is this clear? Let's all come in three steps. Let's not confuse at all. Let me come one step back. This is a problem where n cross n matrix is given to you or a board is given to you and that n number of queens are given to you. The problem says no two queens should attack each other. Like this is a goal state where nobody is in same row or column. Nobody is in same diagonal. Nobody is attacking each other. They are all in their safe positions. Cool. This is what is the goal state. My initial state can be anything. My transition states can be like this in between any number of possibilities. First things first I'm asking you. If in this problem, who all can conflict? Okay, Q1 can conflict with Q2 or Q1 can conflict with Q3 or Q4 or queen 2 can conflict or attack Q3 or Q4 or Q1. Similarly, Q3 can attack Q1, Q2 and Q4. Q4 can attack Q1, Q2 and Q3. If I remove the duplicate, how much will I get? I'll get these six. Here are we clear. Because there are only four queens. There are no queen 5, 6, 7 and so on. There are only four queens. Q1 can attack the other three. Queen 2 can attack the other three and so on. If you write like that, you will get more. But I'm eliminating the duplicates. Because it's like telling, Q1 is attacking Q2 means Q2 is also attacking Q1. So why should I repeat and write it? I'm not writing that. These are the unique ways where queens can attack each other. Perfect. I've written a note. Now my question is about, I give you some random state. What heuristic will you design to tell me? Is it close or far from the goal? Why is this important? Firstly, why is this important? At this stage, I have these combinations. From here, also, I can move some coins and create more further children's states. From this also, I can do this. Also, I can do this. Also, I can do. But I should now take an informed decision on which one is more closer to the goal. Let me take that configuration and move further. You get my point, right? This is why heuristics was started first. Because I don't want to expand all the child states by moving different coins and trying to compare with goal. I want to make sure that I'm pruning. I don't want to explore everything. Which one is more promising? I'll try to take that. And then I will go further. But firstly, can you come up with some heuristics? You already gave me answers. One could be the number of non-conflicting pairs of queen. Right? So if you consider this particular design, can you tell me how many non-conflicting pairs are there? Go and check this. These are the total possible, right? Q and Q2, they are not conflicting. Very good. 1 and 3, yes, they are conflicting. They are conflicting here. So you should not consider. 1 and 4. 4 is not even here. So let's say suppose 4 is kept somewhere here and so on. So you will come up with this and you will put some answers. Before that, first let's judge. This particular heuristic, if it is more is it good for us, the number of non-conflicting pairs, if it is 6, then what does that indicate? Someone who answers this gets a cookie. If it is 6, what does it indicate? We are in goal state. Very good. We are not even close. We are in the goal because nobody is attacking each other. If Q1 is not attacking 2, 3, 4, 2, 3, none of them are attacking each other, then we are in goal. But if it is 5 or 4, we are close to the goal. Maybe someone are attacking somewhere not attacking. But let's see if this is 0, then what does it mean? The number of non-conflicting pairs of queen, if that is 0, then what does it mean in other words, everybody is attacking each other. It's not initial necessarily. So, Krithi, not necessarily initial, it means all are attacking each other. We are in a very bad heuristic. Good. So, we want this number to be max. This is one heuristic. Vibhav has given this to me. On the other hand, I ask Rajiv. He has given me some other. He has given me this. He says, count the number of conflicting pairs. Who are conflicting alone, you give me that. That's also a possible one. In that case, what will be my metric? Do I want this number to be min or max? The number of conflicting should be less for me. I don't want it to be more. I want it to be lesser. So, that's min. Or I am now proposing third one more. I consulted Nandita. She says, go ahead with this. This is number of safe queen. Meaning nobody is being attacked. I am in a safe position. That also you can count. So, let's fill this values and try to see. Given this configuration by this itself, can you already tell me that it could be similar? No problem. There will be many similar ones also. And heuristics also might be similar. No problem with that. In this first one, can you come up with, I have put Q4 here. My Q4 is here in all the examples. Let's assume. So, with this in mind, can you answer this part? They are not different. They are just here. We are comparing the pair. Here we are individually checking the queen. That am I being safe? Nobody is attacking me. That's all. But the meaning is the same. That is why I have wantedly given this. Because let's take a pause here. I just told these are given by different people to me. This was given by Nandita. This was given by Vai Bhau. This was given to me by Rajiv. They don't know each other. They have given me the heuristics for the same problem that I gave them. Then as a designer, you should come and check. Are they the same? Actually, they mean the same. But they are looking at it from a different lens. The first one says, see the pair and then see who is conflicting or not. The third one says, you consider one of them and see, is it being attacked by anyone or not? It's all the same. So, then you can ignore one of them if both are the same. Okay, let's write this answer. But this particular configuration, number of non-conflicting pairs. Right? Non-conflicting wall are there. Is Q1 and Q2 non-conflicting? Yes. Is Q1 and Q4? Yes. Q3 and Q4? Yes. Q3 and Q2? Yes. 4. Q1 and Q3 are conflicting. Yes, no. So far so good. Number of non-conflicting pairs of queen. Right? Wall are there. So, in my example, I didn't have Q2. So, I had just put Q1 and Q2 and Q3 and Q2. Cool. So, if you ignore this part, right? If you ignore this, right? I have this one conflicting. Q1 and Q2 are not conflicting. Q3 and Q2 are not conflicting. That is two. That was I have got here. And this configuration, so far if you consider this, I'll put three because Q1 and Q3 are not conflicting. Q1 and Q2 are not conflicting. Q3 and Q2 are not conflicting. Perfect. How about this? Q1 and Q2 are not conflicting. Q1 and Q2 are not. Q3 and Q2 are not. Because they are not in the same row or diagonal. Done. Let's try to answer this one. Can someone give me like a comma comma answer? Don't just put one. Put for all the four configuration. Number of conflicting pairs. In this Q1 and Q3 are conflicting. That's the only pair. Pivos says 1,000. Very good. All of you are right. In this, there are no conflicting here. Also no conflicting here. Also no conflicting. Safeest queens here. Here which one is safest? Q2 alone is safe because it's not being attacked by anyone. But Q1 is being attacked. Q3 is also being attacked. So only one Q2 is being attacked. So the number of safe queens is just one here. And here, how many? Think about it. Very good. 1, 3, 3. Now can you tell me is the first heuristic answer heuristic the same? That is why we should not jump to conclusion. Are they the same? What Nandirita suggested and Rajiv suggested? They are not the same. The number of conflicting pair and number of safe queens are not the same. But internally, what do they indicate? They indicate how many are safe or how many are being attacked. Why did we do all this? What is this indicative of for me? Which heuristic design is the best among these? I can't choose that because these three designs are exactly giving me same things. But at least, I give one insight that I don't want to explore this way further. Yes, no. That is heuristics for us. Heuristics, either I could go with one of them or all of them also. But unanimously, all of them are telling that this guy is bad. Here, only one queen is safe. But whereas in these considerations, three queens are safe. I just need to go one more and make that the last queen is also safe. I'll repeat. First things first, why did we do all this? We did all this because let's say we didn't have heuristic. From here, I will have many children. From this configuration, I'll have many children. Similarly, for this and this, I would have explored everything and I would have kept on going until I get this gold state. So far, so good. Yes. But now, after I did my heuristics and so on, I got to know this one insight that this first configuration is bad because he is having two non-conflicting pairs. He's having just one queen as safe. But these other three are more promising for me. They have three as they are non-conflicting and three queens are safe. So these are more promising for me to explore than this one. So I'll ignore this and in these three, I'll pick any one of them. No problem. I'll pick one of them and I'll explore that volume. I'll keep going. But this slide was more about explaining you how to come up with heuristics and how that is helpful in eliminating some non-promising one. So are we comfortable with designing heuristic like these? We came up with three different heuristics. All of them are correct. And as we discussed, though the values are not exactly the same, they mean the same. The H1 and H3 are actually the same only. Good. I can keep going like this and I will ignore that first day. You see here, right? This configuration I did not explore further. I'm just exploring something else. Or I could have done this way also. Among those three, I could have explored anyone. This is applicable for game-like settings where we know the rules. What about some real-world problem? Exactly. You have to create it. You have to create the rules. What are the constraints? And what are the goal state? That is what is problem formulation. Right? This one. Any real-world example, you have to come up with all your assignments will be like this. There will be some vague statement, but a real-world context given. But you have to then come up with, okay, what is possible? What is not possible? What is the goal state ideally for this problem? Right? And then for that, how can I come up with these heuristics? Right? Yeah. And in real-world, actually, in your organization, your customers will also be telling you that in my use case, this is what is allowed. This is what is not allowed. This is what I want to achieve. Right? Can you come up with these little sticks? Right? Let's consider another example and type problem. This is my goal state. Right? Can you come up with some heuristic designs? Yes. That's where we found groups. Few examples of we already discussed a bunch of them for this problem. Right? Entile problem is there are tiles. You can replace them here and there and this is my goal state. Right? And even some state, I can keep moving. This two can come here. That is this. This four can come here. This is this. From here, again, there are many possibilities and so on. So I'll keep exploring and I don't want to explore everything. I subtraction of the tie values, okay? And do what? Right? Initial state can be any random state. Right? Or it will be if it is not given to you, you can choose any random state. Okay? You all know this. You can actually put where each location is possible. Action is only move empty by the nearby tile, which means I can only do down left, right up. Only those are possible. Right? And I can also do the goal test. Right? For example, if I name this cell as minus one, this is 01234567, that location plus one, that should be the number here. Right? That is what we are telling here. For example, this is, you know, minus one plus one is zero in zero. There should be blank. Here, this cell is zero. Zero plus one should be one and that is what I have here. That is the way I can do a goal test. I'm just putting these, you know, cells as a number. And that is what I call as location. And plus one should be that ID, that number there, then I have reached go. Right? Transition position, you know, that distance, all of that put together will be my path cause. Okay? This is need matrix operation or just logical grouping. No, not matrix and all. It's just moving, right? So this from here, what are all the possible moves I can do? If you want to explore from this state, I can put one here or three here only two I can put. Right? Right? Can you come up with goal test? Okay? I will they're all straightforward. I put a name for the cell as zero. Okay? This cell has one. This cell has two. The cell has, you know, I mean, not zero. I start from negative. Oops. I start with minus one. This cell is called zero. You know, cell, this cell is one cell. This is cell two. This is cell three. This is cell four. And this is cell five. And this is cell six. And this is cell seven. Okay? At any location, if you take that cell position plus one is what is returned here? Is that correct? If you see this six, this location six, if I add plus one, that is a seven return here. Similarly, take one. This cell one. If I add plus one, that is the number returned here. If this is what is happening, then I'm in goal state. Well, let's do that for this state. Right? Here I have minus one. Here I have zero. Here I have one. Here I have two. So in this, is that property holding true or not? Think about it. Take any one position. And try to add. And see, is that satisfying or not? Right? Check, check this. Let's say it's supposed to take this one. The location says zero, zero plus one is one, but here seven is returned. So it's bad. Right? Let's take this one. Right? Five plus one is six, but here four is returned. But what about this guy? Four plus one is five. So in one cell, I have something correctly. In other cells, all of them are wrong. But in one cell, I have this correctly. For all the cells, if this is satisfied, then I'm in goal. So far so good. I should come up with these. This is what I'm telling you that. You should practice. More, I'll giving you some exercises. I'll be giving you. You have to come up with this. This is PSA coming up with that problem statements, you know, who's the start state? What is the goal and all that? Now I'm asking you the heuristics. Okay. There are two things that. Resha stole others. You will have to define goal. No goal test. We have to define goal is already given you. Like this state is given to you, but mathematically you have to define. Otherwise, how will you test? Transition model is not defined because that is this diagram. This diagram itself is that transition. Showing that I started here. I moved this to here. This became a state. But if I move for this would have been a state. From in this state, what I can do. I can only move this, you know, tile to up. Then I'll get this. Or if I move it to the left, I'll get it like this. Right. Or there are other options also. I could have moved this style here. I'll have three and two like this, right. So there are chill. I'm not going to do this. I'm going to do this. Right. So there are chill. I'm not showing all the children, but there are possibilities. In this case, there are three children possible. This empty tile can go up or left or right. Three children are possible. Here it can go up or right or down. Right. Three are possible. Okay. That is what is the transition model. I'm not writing here. This is the diagram is the answer for that. Okay. I have three answers. Have we covered all? We've covered all? Nirah told two of them. Both of them are correct. And the third one? Put all that. Pressard. Very good. Right. One simplest heuristic could be the number of misplaced tile. Correct. If the number of misplaced tile is zero. What does it mean? If the number of misplaced tile is zero. I mean, I mean goal. Very good. If the number of misplaced tile is nine, it means I'm very far from the goal. Everything is misplaced. Okay. That's also good heuristic. One possible heuristic. Others. Man had 10 distance of empty tile. Only consider the empty tile. And try to come up with the. Man had 10 distance of the empty tile. So in my original goal, where will the empty tile be? In which location it will be there? I just explained you. From this previous graph. I mean, the state. It will be minus one very good. Yeah, minus one is where this empty tile should be. Right. I can use that itself as a heuristic also. For example, here it is in this position. How much it will take to go here? One two or one two. Right. Two steps. I will need. Right. Yeah, you can have zero also. So, frithi, then your goal will change. So, it will be zero plus one. So, only if this is minus one minus one plus one. We will become zero zero is where this 70 tile should be. Right. So, this goal test shoot satisfy. So, I told minus one. If you have zero here, then your goal test should change. Then. Okay. Now, in this how many steps it will take for this empty tile? Could to go to its original position. I have already given. Yeah, this is what it should be. One two three four. Four steps or one two three four steps. Correct. In this one, what is my you know manhattan distance? It is zero. It's very good because my tile is already in the correct position. All of you are right. Is the first heuristic clear for everyone? All of you with me. In first heuristic, I am only bothered about that movable empty tile. I am telling calculate the manhattan for that. Right. If it is in the proper position in the goal in goal, it is here. Here also in this state, it is like this. So, it's zero for that empty tile. Right. I'll come again, which part is not clear? She boom. I asked you. From this state. Yeah. See all of you all of you pause for a minute. I'll explain from here again. Yeah. All of you from here. I have an initial state. I can move this style up or right. If I do that, I'll get two children like this. Are these goal? Quick quick. Is this a goal state? No. If the configuration is exactly like this, then that is good. No, this is not goal. This is also not goal. I'll have to again create its children. How is it? This empty tile can go up. If it goes up, it will come here. That is one state. If it goes left, two would have come here. That would have been one state. If empty goes here, three will come here. That is a state. So three children are possible. I have not shown all. Similarly here also this empty can go up or right or down. Three children are possible. Like this, if you do, you will keep generating children. That is uninformed. You will keep generating children. You will see if this is equal to this configuration. If so, you have reached goal. But we want some extra information. I want to know. Okay. Now there are these, you know. At this stage, how many children are actually there? I have not shown all. But you know the answer. How many children are there at this stage? This would have generated three. This would have generated another three. So I would have had six children here. Here already one, two, three, four are there. I have not shown you this configuration where this empty has moved here. So here empty and here to be there. Here also similarly, you will have, so totally six are there. But among that six, I want to know. Like, are there any bad ones? Can I prove someone? I want to know. I want to know. I want to know. And that is why I am creating my heuristics. These heuristics will then help me to go further. And then I ask you, what are all possible heuristics? And you guys gave me three possible heuristics. One is, I can first count how many misplaced tiles are there. That's there. Or I can say, let's consider only that empty tile and calculate its Manhattan. Or I am telling, let's have the Manhattan distance for all the tiles labeled to tiles. Okay. Let's do the TNC. For the, I have now these, for four confidence, I am showing you for all the six you can calculate. No problem. For this first one, originally the empty tiles should be in this position. Here in the first, this cell, it should be there. But here I have it here. So what is the Manhattan for this? Either go this road. One and two you'll reach here. Or go one and two you'll reach here. And this is two. For this one, what is the Manhattan from this empty? I should go one, two, three, four. Because I cannot go diagonally correct? That's not a load. Or I can take this route one, two, three, four. So it is four. So here also it is one, two, one, two. It is two again here. Here it is already in the correct place. Right. Here is it four. Is it four or is it two? Yeah. This is wrong. So this is four. This is two. Yeah. Perfect. So first, first, first, heuristic we all understood. Right. Now is it clear? All of you. So at this point itself, let's pause for a minute and ask ourselves which configuration is most promising. The last one, if you go only with this heuristic, it says that you know what? The empty is in the correct place. Right. Right. So which part is not clear show them or we'll take it offline after the class ends, but at least for the others, it's quite clear. We are just trying to see. Maybe you have not understood Manhattan. Manhattan means my empty should be here. How many steps will it take for me to go there? In this configuration, I am here. Right. This empty, if it has to come to this, how should it go? First, I'll push him here. So seven will come there. Empty will be here. That is one step. I took one step. Then this one should be pushed here. Empty will go here. That is two steps. That is what is this tool. But here, this empty is at this position. If it has to go to this area, I should first move him here and then here, then here, then here. That is one. Or from here, one, two, three, four. Right. So it is four. Here again, empty is here. So one, two steps or one. Right. So what is the Manhattan taken or distance for my empty tile to go to its goal position? That's what we considered. Cool. Let's consider the second one. For the second one, we are telling for all the nodes, which are labeled, that is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, calculate the Manhattan. Can we do that? Yeah, can we do this? The first node in this configuration, where is it? Now, it will be more clear. I mean, actually, yeah, just follow me and you should be clear. Let's take only this configuration and for all the nodes, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, I'm going to calculate it's Manhattan. What is that? Meaning in the goal state, where is that number? In this state, where is that number? What is their difference or how many steps will I take to go there? In my goal state, my one is here. In this one, my one is here. So how many steps I'll have to move to go there? Yeah, real quick. Meenak Shivil Dalette. This one, if it was here, I can move one, then I'm in the goal state. So that is the Manhattan for this one. Let's now talk about two. This two is here. But in my goal, the two is here. So how far should I go? Either from this place, I can go here. One, two, three, four. Because I cannot go diagonal. The only way for this two to go here is via this route or via this top route. Whatever you take, it will take me one, two, three, four or one, two, three. So that is what is this one. What about the three? So if three is here, in my goal, it is here. So it will take me one, two, three or it will take me one, two, three. So far so good. That is what is this thing. It should be three here. You're all right. All of your right, that should be three. What is the next one? For four, for four, can someone tell me already the answer? Four was originally here in my goal, in my current state here. So it's just one step if I do, I'll be right. Okay, very good. What about five? We'll correctly tell for five. Yeah, we actually are this zero, right? Because five is matching in goal also, five is here. In this state also, five is here. So for five, my, you know, my net is zero. Similarly for six, also you can calculate one, two, three, four and so on. For seven and eight, also you've got for this you can, like the, for only one configuration. The first configuration I have shown you for all the others also you can compute. This is what this heuristic says. Okay, Arun has given me this, right? And Malati has given me heuristic one. Which one of them is giving me more work? Among these two, if you see, yeah, Arun says for every configuration for all the nodes, when calculate Manhattan, computationally more exhaustive. Whereas the first heuristic says only for empty tell you do. What about the third one? So you can complete the rest. You've got the idea, right? For each of the configuration, you have to for all the nodes like this, compute their manhattens. What is the last one? Very simple. H3 says calculate the total number of misplaced ones. In this one, how many misplaced are there? Real quick guys. In the first in this one, only five is in his proper position. Right? Everyone else are in the improper position. Only five matches the goal. All the other nodes are not matching. They are in some other places. Only one node is in their correct position. Right? All the others are misplaced. So I can put as 8. I'm considering the empty tell also. Some people don't consider. But if you consider empty tell also as a pi, right? You can tell that 8. Among the nine cells, only five is incorrect. All the rest 8 are wrong. Similarly for other configurations, you can compute. Right? So far so good. All of you. Right? Yes, no, maybe. Basically the calculation for all three together or their influence or one of them is bigger. So for any problem, you can have one heuristic alone or you can have multiple of them and so on. And then that's a trade off, right? Because one. This one is among these, which one is the easiest to compute? Can you tell me that. The H3 because you are just counting the number of misplaced. Whereas in first two, you are computing some man hat and so on. Right? It's slightly. And in that H2 is the most computationally intensive because you are now telling for all the nodes computed and so on. Right? So can we indirectly calculate his three from H2? Yeah, you can do that. Yeah. But I am telling these are given by different people. Right? So you will choose one of them and apply your whole problem or you can use a combination of them and so on. Right? But the goal of today's class was if given a problem, are you able to come up with different types of heuristic? The last one should be minimum, correct? The minimum number of misplaced it is. If it is zero, it is good. If it is eight, it means this conversation is so bad. If everything is our misplaced, only one of them is correctly placed. So now for the first two, one and second one, can you tell me should it be mean or max? For each of the node, when the man hat and distance of it, if it is smaller, is it good or is it more? It is good. It is more it is good. Minimum, right? Very good. That's correct. For the first one also, when it is zero, it's more promising. Right? Because at least this empty tile is in its correct position. You will then pick one of them. Whatever heuristic you have chosen based on that, you will pick that configuration to explore further. In that way, you are reducing the search. You are based on the heuristic you are going for the. Yes, it is h2 is time consuming, but is it valuable? Right? It is giving me for each of them, you know, which is among these configurations. Let's say, suppose you have only h2. H1 is not given to you. H3 is not given to you. You have only one heuristic. Then you will compute for each of them and then among those you will see, okay, which one is more promising. Which ones are more closer? You will go there. So in this problem, for all the heuristics, the lesser value is better. It's not like that queen. Cool. Last two minutes and then I'll leave you for the day. Right? This one. Right? The heuristic design. Right? This is a reference paper. Right? So this is a reference paper for you. In this paper, it uses a star and greedy best for search as the two algorithms to evaluate learned heuristics. Right? Very important on several problems. Sokoban and maze with teleports sliding. So these are all different problems. Okay? No, not before X. You can explore one or two and then try to come up with the heuristic. Even you don't need to fully do that. Then there's no point in having the heuristic rate. You should start with, you know, one or two children and then automatically come up with heuristic. And this one or two levels is important because that is what is your problem solving. Transition model. Right? This is the answer to transition model. One or two children, you should generate. That will give you a fair idea. And then you can start putting your heuristics. Okay? So I would encourage you to read this paper. I'll also show you that paper. But in simple, what is it doing? It is actually trying to consider. Right? Your heuristics as a neural network. Right? I'll show you the next slide. It will be more clear. A star you all know this formula. F of n is equal to G of n plus H of n. So far, what was this H of n? Can someone tell me what was H of n? It was given to you. It was given to you by some answer. XM or someone gave it to you as a heuristic. Someone gave you. It was just a value. But now we are telling this H of n is a neural network. And the neural network is giving you that heuristic. So generate the successor, compute the, you know, H of s, theta. That is what is your previous slide. Right? It uses some convolutional layers and all that, which you might have learned in your neural networks. And that answer is used to compute direct-off. Similarly, in GBFS, you don't have G of n at all. Right? It uses only H of n, which is directly coming from that neural network. So I'll show you that paper. The paper is also linked here. Okay? It is linked in this first slide, this reference paper. And I'll show you that. Right? Don't go too much into it. There are a lot of unwanted things also in this paper. But you can skin through this paper as to, you know, that will be something called as a grid domain. Yeah, this one. Neural network for grid. Grid meaning these type of puzzles, which are like grids. Like, you know, I have told you, right? The soko ban maze with teleports sliding puzzle and so on. They're all these type of. This is also a grid problem, right? So for these grid problems, they designed a neural network, which acts as the heuristic function that will give you the heuristic function. And that is what they will use in their A star or GBFS. So it's a good read. So you can have a look at that paper. And we pause here. We'll come back in the next class and we'll start with local search. And we'll continue from there more like genetic algorithms and, you know, tail climbing and all that. But today's chess that, you know, Queen's problem is very important. If you have not understood that really, please watch that again. Because that will be helpful in local search and so on. Right? We'll continue from local search in the next class. I'll still be there for few more minutes. Right? For the others, you can, you know, the class is over technically. So you can leave. Otherwise we will meet in the next Sunday's class. I have a few queries. I'm being tagged. Let me have a look at that. Oops. Or first, it is only based on empty tiles. So when empty tile is at incorrect place, this seems to be completed. But in actual, the problem is not so that's correct. Absolutely. Right? Here itself, you get the meaning right? I mean, if you know, consider this guy, if you go with this, you cannot move this any further because you believe that empty tile is in a good correct place. But all others are wrong. Only this guy is correct. So if you move this further, then again, this heuristic will start varying. Currently, not be zero anymore because if you want to correct others, you have to move this. If you move this, this heuristic will not be zero. So the first heuristic is not very appropriate one. You should always go for this H2 or H3. H2 is the most preferred, but of course, there's a trade off. You need to do more computation. So sir, we can say in last problem, H2 is super set of H3. Yes, you can say you can derive it. That's correct. Yeah. To find the heuristic, we are actually solving few steps towards solution. Yes, you have to because that is what I was telling you that when you explain the problem to an expert or AI, you have to have this PSA, right? In PSA, this model transition is required, which is all about the first few steps. You have to start with initial state, do something and understand where we are heading. So that itself can then be used for heuristic design and further solving. Yeah, once it is zero, we won't touch it in the was at random. No, you have to because every state that might get bad rate. So as I told you, if you go with this first one, you told that empty tile is proper. Okay, you've decided this to go further and you change seven to here, empty became here and you know, or one became here as its children. There are two children possible for this state. In that again, if you recompute this heuristic, time heuristic will not be zero. Correct. So you can't be like, you know, one time is done and I'll stop it there. Right. You should keep doing for every stage until all the heuristics are in their proper place. So firstly, this first heuristic is a bad one, okay, because this is not even talking about all of this. So H2 is the correct heuristic for this, but it's computationally intensive. We shall ask a question. So in exam, we will get only initial state and goal state, right? Remaining we need to solve that's correct. Sometimes even initial state will not be given only the goal state will be given. You can assume anything any random state as the initial state. Yeah. So far so good. All of you this paper also is a good one read about it. How it's using learned heuristic or some, you know, neural network as their H of N. Right. So have a look at that. But apart from that, that's pretty much for today. Right. So I'll stop the recording here and again, a word of caution for you is. My classes are slightly fast because I keep asking questions. I keep going. It will all look, you know, like a fairy tale in the class, but go back and watch the recording. Go back and solve the question for each of this topic. There are, you know, questions. Even in this slide today, I'll be uploading. There are some questions, right? If I show you this particular slide or even this one, this is directly, you know, there's a graph. There are some things you'll have to apply GBF as a star. And you'll have to check for admissibility consistency, all that. There's also some questions around, you know, there's a big question where there are things given to you. And you have to come up with the state representation. You have to come up with relaxed versions of the problem. And you know, which constraint got relaxed and you know, come up with heuristics and all that. So these are all, if I were you, I will start taking this seriously every week. I'll do this. Right. So try to do that and also watch the recordings. Right. And maybe you can slower the recording also. Maybe if it's too fast or I've been someone were telling right. So put it in point 75X and so on and try to sit with the paper and pen and follow the recording. It'll be more clear. There are two questions. People have asked what to do when we have insufficient heuristics. Yeah, when you have insufficient heuristics, we left to further go for, you know, learned heuristics or relaxed problem and so on as it all right. You'll reduce the problem and for the relaxed problem, can I come up with some heuristics? At least that if I can solve all that's what we do. Right. I think that's already you know answered. Ask questions about these two SME rest professor can suggest. Yeah, asking SME is fine, but as I told if SME also cannot know, then this is exactly the point. Right. If you solve this exercise, you will get a better idea where there is a problem given. There are some relaxed versions of that you will try to come up with heuristics for these. Right. So that's what we do. 10 30 you folks have a class rate. Why four you mentioned in this you mean I have come with four you can come with more relaxed versions also. Okay, you don't have a class at 10 30. Okay, some other day you had a class I believe someone was telling I have a class you should leave. We stop the recording.