Transcript: ACILecture5.mp4
============================================================

Cool, let's wait for another 2 minutes or less than that and then we'll get started. So, what special about today? Is something special today, right? The special is that you have assignments today, not very any. You have your first assignment going live today at 7 pm. So, I'll also be announcing it. So, it'll not be visible now. It'll be visible from 7 pm. Every detail will be available to you in the document. So, don't worry about that. Read the document before starting threads, unnecessary questions, emails and all that. Every detail that you require for your assignment will be available in the problem statement. A PDF document will be given. Everything needed will be available there. Which is later, but only assignment is starting from today. How about your other courses, by the way, as it started already? Oh, okay, interesting. It's already started. We are late to join the party then. Okay, I think it's just started. So, first thing first, welcome to the first contact session for artificial and computational intelligence. And what we'll be looking at today is local search algorithms and introduction to evolutionary algorithms. So, real quick, what did we do so far? Anyone? Quickly go in the chat. What did we do so far? We already completed 25% of this course. So, what have we done so far? Uninformed, informed, very good. We started our algorithm before that. Before that, what did we do? PAS, very good. Yeah, we started it in the second class itself. And in the very first class, we also had this whole discussion about what is intelligence, what is the goal of artificial intelligence? Should it be better than humans? Should it be rational? Should it think or should it act? And we did a bunch of things, right? Architecture and all of that. Very good. So, we'll move forward from there. So, with the very first thing, we started was on, we decided that there's a foundational course we want to learn about how certain techniques in AI started and how they are evolving and so on. And in the first class, we got to discuss about the history of AI, the different innovations, why it is in the boom currently, the different bad phases of AI and all of that. And we concluded that session with that quadrant of thinking was is acting and again being rational versus human. So, there were four quadrants. We learned about all of that and then we moved on. We told that in this course, we will be building some of these rational agents who can act and for that, we need to first define about the agent, the PEAS specification of it, right? About its performance, environment, actuator and sensors. And we can explain that and going on to the environment, again, there can be a lot of environment types. It could be right from dynamics, stochastic, deterministic and so on. We learned about all that and we then told that there are different ways to design this and there are architectures like simple reflexive or goal based utility based. We learned about all that. After completing that part, what did we really do? We went on and we started looking more about how do we solve a problem using AI or how do you formulate a problem? It was called as PSA, which is nothing but problem solving agent, right? So, we started looking at PSA and in PSA again, we told that there are five stages in PSA. Do you remember that? Anyone? When you start looking at a problem solving agent, we left to first decide, okay, what is the initial state, what is the goal state, what is the transition model and what is the cost and so on. And we learned about those different types of problem formulation. We did it for a bunch of problems like your tick tacto and nine puzzle and all of that. And then we told that a lot of initial AI was all about, oops, it was more about, can I model a problem as a search problem? And if I can model it as a search problem and try to solve that, then it means that I have achieved my goal and that was deemed as intelligence, right? So, a lot of AI in the initial days was this kind of search. And there again, we looked at uninformed and informed. In uninformed, we looked at BFs, DFs, uniform cost search, iterative deepening, iterative lengthening and you know such concepts. It does not end up there in your course, so we did not go very detailed, but of course we did look at some of those details. And then we went on to informed and one of the striking differences there was in informed search, we are not just, you know, given the problem. We also have some additional information in the terms of intuition, right? And that is called as a heuristic. And where does this heuristic come from? Traditionally, initially when we started that class, how did it come from and later how did that come from? Yeah, from SMEs, very good. It initially came from SMEs. We told that we can evaluate it. There is this whole concept of, you know, you can do admissibility, consistency and all that. And later we also told that we just don't need to relay on them. We can also have other types. For example, you can reduce that problem size, solve it, keep it in, you know, databases, patent databases. Or, you know, you could also use some of these learning heuristics and you know, things like that. And we learned about a lot of details around this in the last class about designing heuristics, how is it important and consistency and you know, admissibility and all those properties. And I also started with some research paper and I told you to go through them. And that's where we had stopped so far so good everyone. Yes, no, maybe. Yeah. Okay, so what we'll be doing today. So you have your hands raised. Okay. Cool. So let's get started today. And what we'll be ideally doing is we want to start with something called as a local search. And local search is fundamentally different, right in certain ways, right. How is it different? We already had a recap. We look at local search algorithms. We look at hill claiming. It's an algorithm local beam search. And there are some variants of these two. We'll also look at those. And we look at, you know, what is online search later maybe. And we'll look at genetic algorithms and slightly talk about a few, but we'll do those, you know, in depth in the next class. Right. First things first, what is a local search and optimization problem. Optimization is central to artificial intelligence, right. Many a problems require finding the best solution among the vast number of possibilities. Okay. So what is this first change? So first let's try to, you know, get this intuition right this concept right. Then we will learn the search techniques. So in all the previous topics that we learned so far, right. For example, informed and informed and all of those things that we learned so far. The path to the goal is a solution to the problem. Correct. And what we did was systematic exploration of the search space. Do you agree to that? In that N Queen's problem, what really we did? You remember the N Queen's problem or four queen or eight queen, whatever we were doing. We told that, okay, there is this board for me and there are these, you know, different places. My goal is that I want to place four queens in this such that nobody is conflicting with each other. Okay. How did we do that? We told that, okay, initially this board is empty. So I can put the first queen anywhere I want and then the second queen and so on. This will, you know, give me several options and from there I'll keep going and somewhere down the line. I want a goal where nobody is conflicting with each other. Similarly, in others also, right. For example, in an informed or informed in all of those algorithms, what we did? Initially formulated a problem. We started generating or making some moves, maybe in that, you know, puzzle, you know, eight puzzle and so on. Wherever you move that empty tile, that will become the next, you know, type of should rep, right. And from there, you can, you know, keep making moves and we were trying to find out. Have we attained the goal or not? Is this clear or not? This is what we were doing from the beginning. We told that I'm in some initial state. I'm looking for a goal state and this transition, this transition from initial to goal by using some of these operations when by going through those states. I want to go to that goal state and that systematic exploration. That is what we were doing so far. Correct. In all those, the path was my solution, right. The path meaning from my initial state to the goal state, how did I reach there and what cause did it take me? That is what is the answer that we were looking for. But now the mindset change when we are talking about local searches that a state itself is a solution to the problem. Correct. A state itself is a solution to the problem. What do we mean by that? For some problems, the path is irrelevant. I don't really need how you came there. The first queen you kept here or you kept here or you kept here. I don't bother about all that. You give me a board in which the queens don't conflict. That is what I am more interested in and I'm not really interested in the journey. Right. For such problems, we use this whole concept of local search. Is it clear? In many optimization problems, the path to the goal is irrelevant. The goal state itself is the solution. Meaning the state space is nothing but a set of complete configurations. You find the configuration satisfying the constraint. Right. In such cases, we use local search algorithms. In other words, let me just simplify this for you even further. Right. What it really means is that one philosophy, the first one, all that we looked at the path and so on, the analogy could be like the journey is what we are looking for. Right. I am in a initial state. I want to go to the goal state. How can I go? What is the cost? What is the path? How can I systematically go there? The journey to go from initial to goal. That is what was my operation. Whereas in the state optimization problems like these or in local search we are telling, the state itself is a goal. But how good or bad it is, I want to then figure out. We will go further and it will be even more clear. But is this intuition clear? Yes, no. Whatever state is given that itself is a solution for me, isn't good or bad, I want to evaluate. I am not really bothered about how you came here and what is the path cost involved, which was the first queen, which was the second queen and all that. I am not interested in all that. You give me a board configuration that itself is an answer for me. We will go to that solution. There are a lot of applications. We will have a look at them. In local search, you keep track of single current state. Very, very important. So far in all our algorithms, we had to keep track of those states in some queue or stack and all that. You remember it. We removed some node. We look from here where all can I go and we ask such questions. We put them in the queue. Because we were interested in that path, how am I slowly transitioning towards the goal? But here I am not interested in all that. I am only interested in the current node. Apart from the current node, I am interested in moving only to neighbor states. I am in this state where all can I go in my neighboring. I am not interested in the whole problem, the whole state space, the path and all that. And I am ignoring the paths. What are some advantages of doing this? Why should I do local search? Because it uses very little memory. Because I am not generating any state space, tree and so on. I am only interested in the neighbors. And it can often find reasonable solutions in large or infinite state spaces. And there are pure optimization problems where this local search is more relevant. For example, the Nqueen's problem. In the Nqueen's problem or that puzzle, right? 8 puzzle. I don't really bother how you came to that configuration. But as long as it satisfies those constraints that I told, if you have solved that game, I am happy with that. So all states have an objective function. The goal is to find the maximum objective value. How you reach that maximization, I am not interested. It does not quite fit into path cost or goal state formulation. I don't want that whole scene of creating an initial, creating a goal, what all transitions I can do. Systematically exploring using some, you know, a star or ID, a star or any algorithm. Right? For such problems, this is more, you know, relevant. So search in the state's state space in the neighborhood of the current position until an optimal solution is found. What do we mean again? So the keyword here is neighborhood. We are telling that you are given a state that state is still, is an answer. But is this the best answer we don't know. If you want the best answer, you can still do some searching, but only in the neighborhood. You can do only some slight changes to that. And whatever neighbor you get, do a search on that and so on. You can't generate like how we did for uninformed or informed where you generate the whole state space. And you know, keep looking for where all can you go, which is the slowest, lowest cost I'll go there. No, we're not going to do that. Yeah, very good. So, can we have multiple solutions in this is everything is a solution here. We'll talk about an example. It'll be one more clear. That's what the full day will do today. There's several various a kill claiming simulated and a link and so on. And one more category is population based. Right? That also we will look when the time comes and there we have genetic algorithms and colinians one. When we actually start looking at the algorithms, it'll be more clear on why these are local and why these are population based. Right? But the crux of this is local search algorithms focus on improving a single current state, meaning any state that give you is a correct solution only. That's a solution for me. I'll try to improve it rather than constructing complex search trees. It's something like you know telling that I'll give you a question. You give me something that is an answer. Correct? And then slowly you can improve on top of it. But the other you know path related things that will look that so far. You're not even giving me an answer. You're slowly deliberating about okay. This is my question. How should I go to the best answer? First you will think about some you will write some rough drafts and you will cancel those rough drafts. You'll come up with a better answer. You'll again give it to me and you know things like that. Here we are not concerned about how you arrived. Whatever you give me is an answer. Then slowly try to improve it just by modifying that a little bit. That's what is that neighbor. They especially useful only when the final solutions matter not the path. Right? For example in feature selection, robotics, hyper parameter tuning and so on. Right? There's some terminologies and then I'll not bore you with theory. We'll go to some concrete examples. Then it'll be even more clear. In these type of optimization models, there is firstly a goal. What is that goal? Navigate through a state space for a given problem such that the optimal solution can be found. Right? Here also that is my goal. But everything given is an answer also. Objective could be either minimize or maximize in these type of problems. The scope is local meaning most of these algorithms do not guarantee us a global solution. The best solution. Right? It gives us a local solution. And over here there is something called as a fitness value. Okay? We call this as fitness value. This is very similar to heuristics, but there is a difference in them. Who gives us the heuristic value? It is given by let's say a SME or it's derived using, let's say patent databases or let's say learning heuristics. But here fitness value is not given to us in the problem. We are only calculating it given any state. Okay? We'll see examples. It will be very clear. Yeah. Local search in the state space is the neighborhood of current position until an optimal solution is found. So there are two categories. One is single instance based and one is multiple instance based. In single instance, there are several like you have hill climbing, you have you know local beam search. You have simulated annealing and you have taboo search. And in multiple, you have genetic algorithms and colony optimization and particle so on. Right? There being some modifications in your course for this offering of this course, we will only learn two of these, right, which is hill climbing and its variance, local beam search and its variance in single instance. And in multiple instance, we will only learn about genetic algorithms and ant colony optimization. We will not be learning about particles from simulated annealing and others. Is it clear? Nere says there's a question. Is it like we find one solution to a problem and then optimize the solution more perfect? Right? And that optimization to the you know goal solution might happen, might not happen because none of these algorithms guarantee you that I'll give you the best. Okay? But among the given states which one to choose and improve, that is the whole class today. Correct? Let's begin and then you will get the intuition. But to summary so far, the last you know 20 minutes, what we have done, there is this whole notion about local search where we are telling that whatever state you give me that itself is an answer. But how good or bad it is, we will decide. We will try to improve, but that improvement also, we will try to do only by using some neighborhood and not fully exploring the tree. And on contrast to the previous techniques we learned, this is different because in the previous techniques, the focus was on the journey, not the destination. It was on okay, there's an initial state, there's a goal state, there are different paths to take, different algorithms we can deploy. We can try to see how we can go there, which is the you know smaller cost and so on. That path and the cost is important for me. But in these type of problems, I'm not interested in that path cost and all that. I'm just telling me give me a solution, which is satisfying all my constraints, which is the optimal solution. Right? And how do we start here? We start here by telling whatever you give me is an answer. Then let's try to improve it. Such as a question, how can we decide whether we reach the goal? I'll tell you. For example, in this, what is this? We already learned about this. This is nothing but a four queen problem. There is this board configuration, there are these four cross four matrix or a chess board, there are four queens and somewhere it has been placed. Local search is all about search in the state space in the neighborhood of the current position until an optimal solution is found. Let's first start here. If we were in that previous mode where we were looking for, you know, we were in uninformed, informed and so on, we will start with an empty board. We'll first place a coin and then we will decide on, okay, where should I place the next coin so that it is not conflicting. Then we'll place the third coin, fourth coin and so on. That full tree we will draw and on that. Now we are not doing any of that. I have taken a board configuration like this randomly and give importance to the heading of this board. What is the heading of this board telling us? Feasible state or solution, which means this board itself is an answer for me. This also is a solution but is this the global optimum? Is this the best solution? No, there are conflicting things here. So simple stuff is, such as answer to you. For a given problem, any configuration is an answer but is that the goal? Is it the best thing that you need to evaluate and further you need to do different steps and that's what we will look now. So even if I take a random board like this, I put a cube in here, queen here, queen here, this is also answer. I might have put here also or in everything in one row that's also answer. Any configuration is an answer. It is a feasible state. It is a solution but it is a global optimum or not that we need to figure out. We will not draw the whole state one by one, deliberating, I have put my queen here, I should not put here, here, here. That's the mindset change here that what we are doing between local search and this type of path search with this local search. So firstly, we will learn about a bunch of concepts before we move on to the algorithms. There are some questions but why is it considered as a solution when it doesn't satisfy the conditions? So what are we telling in local search? In local search, we are telling that the state itself is a solution. Correct? Any state itself is a solution for me. That is why we are telling it is a solution. We are not telling this is my goal. Very important. A solution or a feasible state in local search means whatever you are giving me. I am not bothered about the path how you came here. You have given me some configuration. This is a solution. Is this goal or not? I will have to determine that. You get the difference. It is a solution but how bad or good it is to the goal that I will determine. Any random board is a solution is not incorrect. When we are talking about local search because in a local search, any given state is a solution for me. That is the terminology or the mindset change. I am not interested about the path to the goal but any state itself is the goal. If you remember our initial first slide of this one. This topic in local search, a state is a solution to the problem. But is that solution, good solution, bad solution, we will come back later. So far so good. All of you. So good. Any state, any valid state. You can't give me some invalid state. You are putting five coins in four cross-forces but that is wrong. But as long as you are giving me a valid state, I consider that it is a solution. But then we will slowly go towards the goal. Is this a good solution or bad solution? Is it near the goal or not? And we will make some attempts to make it a optimal solution. Is it making some sense? All of you. This is a very important difference between the past and the current topic. But after receiving the initial state as a solution, improving upon it using neighboring court would have cost. It would be considered. No, we will not again consider the cost. We will only be concerned about how better is this or not. So I will again quickly explain this. All of you. This is a very important difference. In all the concepts that we learned so far, the path to the goal is a solution. What is the solution? Solution or answer. I am giving you a goal state, an initial state, and I am asking you a solution. What you will give me is that path or that cost it takes from go to the initial to the goal. Here I am telling. I am not interested in that path, cost, how you came there and all that. Don't give me all that. You give me some state. That state itself is a solution for me. That solution that you gave me, it can be optimal or not is a different story. Here also, you can always debate that. You gave me a path that you go from booker as to here, from B to C and C to D and so on. And it costed me, let's say 85. There could have been a path to go from A to B and directly to D, which should have costed me, let's say 65. Then this should have been my optimal, but you gave me this as the answer. But I did consider this also as an answer rate. Because this is also a feasible solution. Similarly, here in local search also I am telling you give me any state, valid state, that's a solution. Later we will bother about if it is a goal or not and how to reach that goal. By making only some neighborhood changes, we will not generate that whole thing. A, B, A, C, D, all that is also fine. Everything is fine. But is that notion clear? The notion is that in my previous concepts, I was more worried about the path. Whereas here I am telling the state itself is my goal. We will go further and it will be even more clear. Rajiv has some ideas, earlier structured search is to go to all feasible state. So with the local search, we are randomly working. Is it possible that we recycle the states? We will come recycling also might happen sometimes. We will learn about that when the algorithms start. Cool, so let's begin. First things first, there are some notions here. We will understand all that. I will give you some tasks also. And then we will move on further. First of all, how do you denote this problem? Correct. There is this 4x4 and there are these 4 coins kept. I will use a vector like this. A vector like this is V1 denotes the first column. V2 denotes the second column. V3 denotes the third column. V4 denotes the fourth column. And the value of put here is in that column in which row is my queen. So here if you see in this second row is where my queen is. So V1 is 2. In my second column in fourth place my queen is there. So I will put here 4. In my third column in second row it is there. So I put 2. And in my fourth column in second row it is there. So I put 2. Is this denotion clear? Let me give you a number. You will tell me where it lies. 1, 3, 2, 4. If I give you as my initial, you know, this is my state. What is the corresponding version of the board? Can you tell me that? What is this depicting? This is V1, V2, V3, V4. V1 represents the first column, second column, third column, fourth column. And the values I am putting here tells which row. So in the first row I should put this queen. Here I should put it in the third row. Here I should put it in the second row. Here I should put it in the fourth row. So far so good. All of you. Across in many more slides I will keep doing this. So all of you if you have not understood this, please listen to this carefully again. This is just a vector. I will just put V1, V2, V3, V4. Any number I can put here. I can put 2, 4, 3, 3. What could be the board configuration of that? This is going to always represent the columns. In which row? This is in second row. So put the queen here. This is in fourth row. So put here. Here you will put it in third and third. So far so good. This is what we are going to do. This is my denotion. How am I denoting that problem in my vector? That is the problem formulation type of a thing. We have done that here. Right? So now what we are trying to tell is, okay. You have now started with some state. And you have also formulated it telling where it belongs and all that. Right? And now I am going to calculate something called as a fitness value. Right? The fitness value is nothing but it is like the same heuristics that we have learned so far. But the only difference is heuristics was given to me already. But here it's not given to me. I will start with the state and then evaluate it. Right? The number of conflicting pairs of queens is what I am taking as my fitness value. You can keep it as H often. Some people prefer to keep it F of N. They are all the same. In this case, how many conflicting pairs are there? Last class also we discussed about it. Yeah, applications we learned that a shoot later. All the applications are there separately. We learn about it. Right? The robot itself is working in local search. It is standing in some position. It has only some neighborhood parts only there they will go. It is not exploring all the parts where it can go and so on. Correct? F of N is given by the domain is an air perfect. It's the same concept of heuristics. But just the difference is that here we start with a state then evaluate the fitness function. But in my you know previous concepts it was already given to me. And the heuristics drove my next steps where all I should go. So how can I first you know come up with this? Let's say suppose this is Q1, this Q2, this Q3, this Q4. What are all the possible combinations? I can have Q1, Q2, Q1, Q3, Q1, Q4, Q2, Q3, Q2, Q4 and Q3, Q4. All these combinations are possible. And now in this wall is Q1 and Q2 conflicting or non-conflicting? Q1 and Q2 here they are not in the same row same column or they are not in diagonal. So they are non-conflicting. What about Q1, Q3? Are they conflicting? Yes, they are in the same row conflicting. Q1, Q4, Q1 and Q4 are in the same row again, again conflicting. Q2, Q3, Q2 and Q3 are they conflicting? Not really, not conflicting. Q2, Q4 are they conflicting? Yes, they are in the same diagonal. What about Q3, Q4? Yes, they are also conflicting because they are next to next in the same row. They are also conflicting. My fitness function says fitness value, number of conflicting pairs of cubes. Number of conflicting pair, how many are there? There is this one, there is this two, there is this three, there is this four. So four is my conflicting pairs. Correct. For this type of a problem like a four queens problem, what is the goal, what is the optimal solution? When I consider the conflicting pairs, what should be the number of conflicting pairs? Yes, it should be zero. The number of conflicting pairs should be zero means nobody should conflict with each other. But in this case I have got my conflicting as four of them are conflicting. What do we do next? What do we do next? If I just consider this particular state, can I come up with the neighboring state? So sir, how Q2 and Q4 are conflicting? They are in the same diagonal. Correct? They are on the same gray color diagonal. So they are conflicting. Yes, cool. In local search, again and again we have been telling that word that I will not explore the entire search tree. I will only do some small changes and try to see if I can get to that global optimum or the goal. Correct? In this case I got my fitness value as four that is not equal to zero. Zero is the best one for this problem for this particular fitness value. So what I will do, I will start generating some neighbor states. What is a neighbor state now? A neighbor state is derived from this state. If I do some small change, if you look at this configuration, this queen and this queen are in their same positions. Q4 also is same. This Q3 alone, I have changed from this position to, I have got here. One more state, if you see here. Q1 is in the same place, Q2 is also same, Q3 is also same. Q4 alone instead of this second row, I put them in the third row. Correct? Is this vectors making sense for you? V1, V2, V3, V4? This is in the same place, Q2. This is in four. This alone is changed from this position to three and this is remaining in two. So far so good. What we have done here, very important. From that random initial state, which I considered as a solution, I believed it can give me a good, you know, goal, optimal solution, global optimum, but it did not. It gave me a fitness value of four, which is not my best answer. So what I try to do is I try to look at its neighboring states, very important. I derived that neighboring state by moving just small, you know, steps. In this, I mode only this Q3 to next position. In this, I moved my Q4 and so on. We look at in the next slide, how different ways we can do that. And one variable it. The definition of a neighborhood state is just that from the random state that you picked, if you do small movements, one movement, whatever the configuration newly you get, that is a neighbor. Right? The neighborhood state is nothing but that state. Okay. So these two are neighbors of my first one. Why? Because only this Q3 got here. Here the Q4 alone got here. Right? Other things are all the same. Right? So these are all neighbors of it, meaning in one movement, you can go back to that previous state. Right? Like this, you can keep going and somewhere if you get something like this, here you have your fitness value of zero. Here the fitness value of four, here the fitness value of two. You know how to do that, right? You know how to calculate, you know, the conflicting. So can you do for this configuration? Can you tell me who are the ones who are conflicting? Let's say this is my Q1, this is my Q2, this is my Q3 and this is my Q4. Which two are conflicting? Right? Q1 and Q3 are conflicting because they are in the same row. And who else is conflicting? Q3 and Q4 because they in diagonal they are all the same. So that is what is this two. In this example, I am getting zero, this is my optimal solution. Right? We are not meaning that from this, you know, neighborhood state we came here, we are just telling the answer. But here also if you see from this state, if you are considered, let me just, you know, erase things for a while. If you are considered this state, oops. Is this neighboring to it? Because this is same as this same position. This is also kept the same position. This is also kept the same position. This alone went up one step. This is, this state is a neighboring state of this configuration. And luckily I got it as optimal. Correct? Long story short. You started with some configuration. You told this is also solution. But when we checked its fitness value, it was not the global optimum. So you did only one step change. You got some other neighbor. If you do some other change, you can get some other state and so on. All of those states that you can get by one movements are all its neighboring states. For that you calculated its fitness functions. And you saw that they are also no good. So from this neighboring state, again, you can do one change or so on. And you will get further neighbors. You will keep doing by neighbor by neighbor. And you might get on to the optimal solution. We will learn concrete algorithms like hill claiming beam search and so on. On how they do this. Right? We'll go to the next slide and you will understand more about how to get these, you know. Multiple steps are allowed or not. And one movement are allowed or not and all that. So we had a question to be considered that q3 is conflicting with two queens. So we need to move. No, we are not considering all that. We are not actually calculating all this, you know, how many moves to make and all that. Right? In the next slide it will be even more clear. Yeah. This configuration all of us are clear. Correct? V1, V2, V3, V4. They are all depicting one columns and the numbers inside them tell in which row the queen is. Let me ask you a question. The V1 variable, where all can it be? Currently that queen is in second row, but where all can it be? It could have been in the first also or it could have been in three or it could have been in four. So there are three possible ways it can move from two. Either I can move it to one or I can move it to three or I can move it to four. That will generate me three configurations and all the three also are neighbors to this state. So far so good. Yes, no. It's all very deterministic. Nothing probability, right? There is a random state. V1 alone if I consider currently that queen is in second row. I can move it to either first row or third row or fourth row. If I do that, each of them are going to give me different configurations and all of them are neighbors to this, correct? To this state. Similarly, V2 if I consider where all can I move? Let's say I'm not moving V1. Right? Right? Where all can I move this V2? Currently it's in fourth row. I could have had this in row one or two or three. Right? One, two or three. Similarly, V3. Right? V3 could have been in one or three or four. V4 where all can this be? It can be in one or three or four. Correct? So far so good. In this whole concept, we were just moving once. Correct? Let's call it one and n. Very, very important. This is not your K nearest neighbor and all that that you learn in machine learning. This stands for one. One neighboring region expansion. Very important. Students make a, you know, okay, this is one and n. Then does it mean that, you know, nearest neighbor algorithms and other machine learning techniques? No, this is very simple. This states that if I only move one, then these are the configurations possible for me. That is if you consider this V1, right? From two, it could have been one, three, four, right? One, three, four. If I consider this V2, I can have, you know, one, two, three. And this is V3, V4. So how many combinations are possible? Right? How many total are, you know, possible neighbors? If this was my state, 12 different neighbors are possible, correct? Not 81 and so on. How is it 81? So only one movement I am allowing. Correct? I am not doing all multiple movements. Only I can do two to one. Then that's one configuration. Or I could have moved from that to two to three. That's one configuration or two to four. Correct? I could not do multiple changes. Or let's say I don't move even at all. Only V2, if I do, I can do only one movement. That's one. Correct? So this type of expansion is one and n. I can do two and n also. Correct? In this I am talking about, I can move to, let's say suppose I take a configuration like this. Let's say two, four, two, two, two. There's some configuration. Right? Let's consider this pair alone. Right? Let's say this alone, how it can be this one. I could have moved to one or three or four. This four I could have moved to one, two or three. Right? So this itself is going to give me multiple combinations. Correct? I can have one one or I can have one, two or I can have one, three. Or I can have three, one, three, two, three and so on. So totally, if I consider this pair V1, V2, that will give me nine. Right? Or V1, V3, nine. So in this case, how many will be total? If only one movement is allowed. Then how is two comma four possible in, you know, so there this screen is in second position that can go to four. That is what we are meaning here. Right? Achjith. So in this case, we'll have 54 very good. Right? Like this, you can have three and a where you move three, where you have four and a or you can have NNN also. Right? In NNN, you have expanded everything here. Almost anything randomly everywhere is possible. Do you think computationally that's even effective? Right? Yes, no, not effective. So in most use cases, we don't do NNN and so on. We stick to either two NN, one NN and so on. Okay? I'll explain this whole slide again. It's all very important. But in our course, for all these problems, we will stick on to one NN. Meaning one step moment, one new moment, you get a new state that is your neighboring state. Correct? Let's just erase this and come back again from the beginning. Right? For now, let's focus only on one NN. Right? This is my given state. Oops. This is my given state. From here, what all movements I can do? Correct. This V1 alone, if I consider this second row where that queen is, it could have been in one this configuration. Can you draw this configuration? In this way, it is the queen. Other things are not considered. This whole thing is for V1 only. Other things are here only. This queen is here. This is here. But here, this queen alone from two instead of it, I'm telling it is in one. So, this is a configuration. Right? This is one neighboring state. Like this, can someone draw for this one? I'll draw this and show you. Correct? So, here what we are trying to do is, first of all, this is talking about V3. Correct? Meaning V1, V2, V4 are undisturbed. V1 is in the same state that queen is here in two. Right? V2 is also in the same place here. This is also in two, the fourth queen. Only change comes in V3. V3 here, you are telling, instead of this second position that has gone to third. Correct? Here. So far, so good all of you. Like this, each of these, you know, 12 things represent one board configuration. And that configuration is just one step away from this particular state. That is why we are calling it one neighboring region expansion. Now, is it clear all of you how this 12 game? Correct? Or is there any other doubts? So, 2122, 224 like this. For each of these variables, we saw where all it can go. This can take in three ways. This is three ways. This is three ways. When you do, let's say, this particular change, you are not touching anything else. These three are the same. When you are, let's say, touching this particular, you know, change. Rest all are the same. Correct? Still not clear. How to, is 2, 4? Okay, let me just forget this one and then, and so on. Let me just, you know, try to go back. So, maybe the intuition of which variable, what is there is not still clear for, you know, a couple of you. This V1 denotes this first column. This V2 denotes the second column. This V3 denotes the third column. This V4 denotes the fourth column. And what are the values inside it? The values inside it denotes where the queen is. Right? This 2 denotes the queen is in the second row. This 4 denotes the queen is in the fourth row. This 2 denotes the queen is in second row. This 2 denotes the queen is in the second row. Okay? Now, we are now talking about only one movement in this board you can do. Correct? That is only one variable you can change. You can change V1 alone or you can change V2 alone or V3 alone or V4 alone. We need which one do you want to pick? Yeah? Real quick. You can pick only one variable, not multiple. Pick one of that variable and tell me where. You cannot jump two steps. That is what we are telling that we are in one and end. We are in one and end means we have to pick firstly one variable. You have to just change that one. Right? So firstly among V1, V2, V3 before which one do you pick? We need to answer that. Your choice. Among V1, V2 for where are we picking? Let us say we are picking V3. Right? If I pick V3, that queen currently is in my second row. Where all can it be positioned? That is my question. Correct? I picked one variable V3. Currently, V3 denotes two which means that queen is in my second row. But where all can it go exactly? It can either be in my one or it can be in three or it can be in four. Correct? All this is a configuration. Correct? I will write the configuration itself for you here. V1, V2, V3, V4. The first configuration says, right? 2, 4, dash, 2. Why? I have put dash because I consider V3 alone. The others are all constant. I should not change them. Only one variable I consider. Right? So I can already write these dash, 2, 2, 4, 4, 4, and dash, 2. Here I can fill it with these values. 1, 3, 4. If my queen instead of this second position would have been in one, this would have been my configuration. If it has been in three, this would have been my configuration. If it is in four, this would have been my configuration. Correct? I have got my... If I picked only the V3 variable, I could generate three different board configurations. Correct? So far so good. This queen, right? Let me take another color. This queen instead of this two, second row, could have been in first row, or in third, or in fourth. That is what this one, three, and four means. All other queens are in their positions only. We are not doing anything else. Is this notion clear? Now instead of that V3 variable, if we need that pick, let's say V4 variable, then the V1, V2, V3 are all constant. That is, two, four, two are constant. The last thing alone can change. Correct? Two, four, two, four, two are all same. Where can it change? Let's consider this and tell me where can it change now? This is currently in row two. It could have been in row one, or three, or four. So one, three, four. So now if you see, this is another set of configuration. Correct? It has generated me three more. Similarly, if I had considered V1, that would have given me another three. So totally, it would have given me 12. All these 12 are how many steps away from this original configuration? That confusion will right now get cleared. Any configuration that you pick now from this 12, is it a neighbor of this state? Let me just show you that. Let me clear a bunch of things. And let's, you know, prove that they are neighbors. Correct? Pick any configuration. Let's say you pick this one. What was it? Let me take another color for you. Let's say we pick this. 2, 4, 3, 2 is a configuration. Correct? What is my original state this one? Which is 2, 4, 2, 2. How many steps are they away? Correct? This is matching. This is also matching. This is also matching. This is also matching. Just one step away. This is what we mean. If you draw it in the board, then they will not be like, you know, it will not be very intuitive. You should not think about it. They are just one step away. That is why we are telling. We are in one and end. Meaning, one neighboring region is what is expanded. If you just change this back three to two, or you know, you will get the original state. Correct? One variable change. That's correct. Yes. Sir, V3 can it move to column 2 to position. So V3. So V3 is this variable. Right? It cannot move to column. These four variables are fixed. V1 denotes column 1. V2 denotes column 2. Column 3. Column 4. That's it. These values can change depending on where you are placing the queens. Right? 2, 4, 4, 4, 2 is two steps away. Correct. 2, 4, 4, 4, 2 will we ever get this? So if you see here, no, that's also not two steps away. Let me show you. Oops. 2, 4, 4, 4, 2 and your original state was 2, 4, 2, 2. These are all matching. Right? There's only one moment here. Correct? So that is what we mean. And again, that which variable did we change? Right? One step away. Meaning from this four, I can just put the queen to the second row. That's just one movement. Correct? You should not count the actual steps. Okay. From four, I should go to three. Then I should go to two. No. You should not do the subtraction. That's still one movement. I take the queen from four. I put it in two. Or take from two and put it in four. That's just one movement. Yeah? Yeah. One and it means one queen at a time. Beautiful. Right? Is it clear for everyone now? One and it means one queen at a time. Correct? Each time you move, you will get one configuration. So you will get only 12 configurations. This is what we are going to write with in this whole course. But you also get the philosophy that two can also be moved. Correct? I can at a time move this queen to, you know, oops. I can move this to here and I can move this to here. Right? So two queens if I start moving, then I'll get more combinations. Right? This is the way. Right? Either I can play with only V1, V2, all the movements between them. And V3 before is constant. But in V1, V2 itself, I will have nine combinations possible. Correct? I can put both in one one or both in two two, both in three three, both in four four, or one two, one three and so on. Right? Or I can keep V1 and V3 in my game and V2 and V4 will be in the same, like four and two. Like that. I can have six combinations. Each of them intermediate, I can have nine. So 54, I will have different configurations. Right? And so on, we can go. But as I told in this course, we'll always stick on to one movement in any game. Whatever you get in exam or wherever also, we will not tell you that at a time do multiple moves. Right? Sir, please explain this 54 again. So it's not really complex. It's very simple only. So again, if you consider, let's say you are considering this V1, V2. If you are considering V1, V2, what are we not changing? V3 and V4. That 2, 2 is not changed. Correct? Here we can change things. Correct? I am just writing a few. You'll understand this after that. Okay? V1, V2. Currently, they are in which positions? Yeah, that is these. V1, V2. Currently, they are in two and four. Correct? Can both of them be put in one and one? Means this queen also is here. This queen also is here. That's one possibility. Or I can have 1, 2. So meaning the first queen is here. This queen is here. Or I can have 1, 3. Or I can have 1, 4. Or what I can have? I can let's say, have 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 4, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 2. Or I can have, like, you know, 3, 1, 1 and 1. You get the point right now. So, this V1 V2 alone if you consider in the chess board, only these two columns you are considering. How many combinations are there? One combination, two combination, three combination, four combination, one, two, three, four, nine. We consider only V1 and V2, meaning these were all constant, V3 and V4s, we did not even change in this case. Let's say in this second example, we are keeping V2 and V4 constant, only V1 and V3 variable we are changing. That will give me another name. Like that, there are six different combinations possible and each combination which we take and play around, we will get nine, nine combinations of total is 50. Is it making some sense now? No, diagonal we cannot move. We are bothered about where this variable can move. That's all. In that variable, which row can the queens be placed? We cannot move diagonals and so on. I hope this makes sense. Yeah. So, in V1, V2, we cannot place V1 in two and V2. Yeah, you can place. Yeah. Inside them, you can place anywhere. But again, you are talking about two and a half, correct? Chandra. Yes, only two column moves. In other words, let's say suppose this V4 column, what are all the possible values for V4? Can you come up with a set? What all can it be? It can be only one, two or three or four. That's it. Two also, it can be right? Why no two? Like that, every variable can be only one, two, three or four. That's it, right? Cool, that being said. Yeah. Let's quickly get on to hillclaiming, right? If V1 is in two and V2 is in four, then it's one and in. Okay, let me just take a minute for you. If my variable one is in two, okay, and my variable two is in four, yeah. Then what do we want to move? Chandra, I didn't get that point. Yeah. Maybe we can take that offline, maybe I'll unmute you. But everyone, are you clear with one and in? Two and in is still not there for us. I'm just giving you that intuition that one and in is not the only thing. You can do two and in three and in four and in also, right? Multiple combinations you can do. Flexion one is exactly right. You will get more values, right? But in this course, we are going to take only one and in one movement. Yeah, Pratik, we'll take that. I'll quickly explain the intuition of hillclaiming, then we'll take the break, right? Let's quickly do that. What is hillclaiming? Hillclaiming is an algorithm. It's a type of local search. What we are doing? The algorithm says select a random state. Correct? That random state, can you consider that as a solution or not? The one who tells this gets a good in local search. I select a random state that itself is a solution. Is that a global solution or not? I'm not worried. You give me any state that's an answer. You gave me, I took this. Evaluate the fitness core of all the successors of this data. Okay, first let's evaluate the fitness of this one. You all are already aware of this, right? How many combinations possible? This is Q1, this is Q2, this is Q3, this is Q4. These six combinations are possible. Who all are conflicting in this? Q1, Q2, are they conflicting? Non-conflicting. Q1, Q3, are they conflicting? Non-conflicting. Q1, Q4, are they conflicting? Non-conflicting. Q2, Q4, Q2, Q3, are they conflicting? Non-conflicting, right? Q2, Q4, yes, they are in the same diagonal. They are conflicting. Q3, Q4, yes, they are next to each other. They are conflicting. In this case, my H of N or fitness function is number of non-conflicting pairs have taken. What is the number of non-conflicting? Four of them are there. I denote it here. From now on in all my slides, you will see something like this. What does this denote? This denotes my V1, V2, V3, V4. And then there will be a colored box. And that colored box denotes the fitness value of that configuration. This V1, V2, V3, for you just understood. What does that denote? It means in column 1, the queen is in the first row. That is in this first column. In this first column, in first row, the queen is. In the second column, queen is in fourth. That is what this denotes. You already know that this four is the fitness value. The fitness function is like the heuristic function that we were doing, correct? So in the last classes, it's the same thing. But we are evaluating later, not proactively doing before the problem. I could have had other heuristics also. In the last class, we saw for the same problem. I can have number of conflicting also as a fitness function or non-conflicting also. Or I can say how many queens are safe, right? Meaning nobody is attacking that queen. I can also have that. So what I have done here, I took a random state. I evaluated its fitness function. And if the number of conflicting pairs is what is my fitness function, right? For a global answer for this problem or a goal solution, global optimal, what should be this number? Very good, six. Meaning all the pairs, nobody should conflict with each other. Not zero, Nirej. Here we are considering non-conflicting, right? Conflicting should be zero, non-conflicting should be six, right? Nobody should conflict each other, non-conflicting should be six, right? Is this the solution? Yes, this is the solution, but this is not the global solution, right? Six as my answer. What should we do? Right? Evaluate the fitness core of all the successors of this state. First things first, if this is my state, if I apply one NN, how many successors will I get? You know, you all know the answer, very good, it's 12, right? I'll get 12 successors, meaning I can move only the queen one or queen three K, four, we already know that. Yeah, how is it six or shouldn't be four? No. Here there are six combinations. All of them should be non-conflicting. Nobody should conflict with each other, but in this configuration, Q2, this is Q1, Q2, Q3, Q4, diagonal is conflicting, Q3, Q4 are conflicting. So this is not a global solution, right? The pairs, all pairs should be non-conflicting. Yeah, got it right? In this two of them, Q2, Q4 and Q3, Q4 are conflicting. They're in the same diagonal, same row. I should want a configuration where nobody is conflicting. So everything if it's non-conflicting, then all the six, all the six pairs should be non-conflicting. That's my answer, correct? But in this example, it's not possible. In this particular configuration, it is four, right? So this is not the global solution, that's what we mean. But how a conflicting position can also be a solution, that's what goes back to our first slide. We are in local search boss. Anything you grimmies a solution, is it the best solution? No, it is not, correct? Q and Q3 is conflicting. Let me quickly explain again, you're getting confused. Firstly, there are four queens. There are six possible combinations. In this, we will determine who all are non-conflicting, meaning they are not attacking each other. This is Q1, this is Q2, this is Q3, Q4. One and two, let's examine. One and two, are they conflicting? Yeah? No. Non-conflicting. Q1, Q3, are they conflicting? No. Q1, Q4, no. Q2, Q3, no. Right? Q2 and Q4 are conflicting. Why? Because they are in the same diagonal. Q3, Q4 are also conflicting, because they're in the same row. Correct? So in this example, my fitness function told it, number of non-conflicting pair I should consider. In for this board, how many non-conflicting I found? One, two, three, four. That's what I have written here. This board and this thing is a solution, because I'm in local search. Somewhat, I ask this, you know, solve this queens problem, and you know, storage gave me this answer. I'll evaluate it. I'll see that, okay, he has given me an answer. The best possible for this problem is this h of n should be equal to six, which means nobody are conflicting. But in this case, two of them are conflicting. Okay, let me give him some partial marks. Is this idea clear? When we are in local search, any board that you give me is a solution. I'm not bothered how you came here, why you gave me all that? If it's a valid thing, you're not putting five queens. As long as you are not doing that, that's an answer. I'll consider that. But this is not my global optimum. There are conflicting queens. No problem with me. What does the algorithm say? The algorithm says, if this is not six, okay, for all the successors calculate the fitness score. And you already understood through one-and-and mechanism that if I give you a configuration like this, this is V1, V2, V3, V4, how many board configurations are possible? We just discussed that in the last slide. Yeah, how many configurations? 12, very good, right? So now generate all the 12 and for all the 12, try to calculate the fitness function. I've done that in the next slide. I've not shown you all. That's why I've given you ... This is board configuration one, right? Configuration two, configuration three, configuration four, and so on. All the way till I will have C12, C11, C10. Is this intuition clear? All of you? Yeah. So far so good. I'll come to that, you know, in the break. Oops, yeah, this one. This one was my first random state. I this one is C1 or random state. And all of these C2, C3, there is a terminology for them. What is that word? Yeah. Everything is valid. One she, we are in local search. You give me any state, it's an answer. Is it a global optimum or not? Is what is my concern? Yes, it is not. It's a bad configuration, but why is it not, you know, valid? I can have all of them in one role. So for it. Right? Okay, for now, what is C2, C3, C4, all of these called? Yeah, neighbors, right? They're all neighbor to this initial state. Why? Because in one, four, two, two, I've kept these four, two, two, same, only this queen came from this position to this position. Right? In this case, also, four, two, two are same. I have moved that one queen to here. Right? Like that I can do. Right? So I can generate my things. So in this case, right? I have all my 12. Ah, okay, I see why one she was telling this is not valid. Can someone tell why this is not valid in this slide? Here, V1, V2, V3, V4, if you consider, these two are the same, correct? This one, this one is still as it is, right? Then it is valid only, right? Yeah, this is correct only. Only this four has gone to my second position. So this is, you know, this has gone to one. So one, one, two, two is a valid configuration, correct? Yeah? Okay, someone says this is not valid. Okay, don't get into the intricacies, but you get the idea. The idea is, there's this configuration. You apply one and end, you get 12 configurations. For all the 12 configurations, you evaluate their fitness values, okay? Okay, see, 10, one of them was not two queens in third column. Yeah, where is that? Okay, here, okay, this one is in a no-bad. It is a wrong configuration. Just should be somewhere here, right? So you can ignore this. But you get the intuition, right? The idea is you need to get all the 12 neighbors. Then evaluate the fitness for all of them. That's what we have done here, right? Can someone correctly do that for this one? Right? What am I asking? I'm asking how did this fitness value come? Firstly, you will write, this is queen 1, queen 2, queen 3, queen 4, queen 1, queen 2, Q1, Q3, Q1, Q4, Q2, Q3, Q2, Q4, Q3, Q4. Q1, Q2, are they conflicting or not? Okay, not conflicting. Q1, Q3, conflicting. Q1, Q4, conflicting because they're on same rows. Q2, Q3, non-conflicting. Q2, Q4, again, same diagonal, conflicting. Q3, Q4, of course, again, next to next conflicting. So how many non-conflicting are there? Only these two, so that is what is this two. I'll quickly summarize what we did, okay? You can ignore these, you know, wrong things. In hill-climbing, what the algorithm says, pick a random state. As long as it is a valid state, that's a solution. Is it good, bad? We will come to that. But you gave me a state like this. This is a solution. Calculate is fitness score. The fitness score says how far or near you are to the goal. But we are in local search, which means I don't want to deliberate about how can I go there and all that. This is giving me four. This is also an answer. Here's a local optimum. For this problem, the non-conflicting pairs should be six. That is the global optimum. So maybe that wording is what is confusing. So, Christian, a lot of people, if I give you this configuration also, this is also a solution. This is a feasible solution. But in this feasible solution, two of those guys betrayed me, two of them are conflicting. But it's a feasible solution. It's not an optimal solution. An optimal solution is one where nobody is conflicting. But in this two of them are conflicting. So what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to generate using one and a technique. All its successors are neighbors. The actual word is called neighbors, not even successors, but few authors can use this. You will get 12 more neighbors. All if you know how you will get that. You pick one variable, you change that alone, you will get configurations. So you have to draw those 12. I have not shown all of them. I have even made mistakes here. Don't do that. Don't be me. Do all the 12. For each of them, you know what this means. This is V1, V2, V3, V4. They denote where you know each row the queeness. For each of them, then start calculating the fitness. For all the 12, you will calculate the fitness. Okay. And at this point, you will see if anyone else you started from here. This was my first initial random or feasible solution. From there, you generated your 12 neighbors. I've not shown all of them. I've shown bunch of them here. Are there any one who are better than my initial fitness value, meaning any other neighbor state whose fitness is greater than my initial random state? Is it there? Yes, no. In this example, I got 223 and so on. But initially, it's only was four, but by neighbors are even poorer. But let's consider all that 12. Maybe you have done all that 12, right? And let's say in all that well, you did not get all of them where either four or two or one or so on. Then this statement is false, meaning no other new neighboring state's fitness value was greater than my random state. So in the vanilla variant of hillclaiming, you will just stop here. You will tell this is what is my answer. This is what I could find boss. In this two people are conflicting. This is what is a solution for my queen's problem. I have managed to give you a solution where four pairs are not conflicting. Two of them are conflicting. This is all I could get. That is also a solution. That is what I'm telling in local search that this is also a solution, but it is not an optimal solution. Yeah, it is a wrong solution is also a solution. But look at it from a positive intent, right? There are six pairs in six pairs. Four of them are non conflicting, right? Only two of them are conflicting. So I can still be like, okay, it's a good attempt. You've given me some configuration. Four of them are non conflicting, correct? Yes, we can get a configuration where nobody is conflicting. All the six pairs are non conflicting. We can get, but let's say in this attempt, we didn't get it. Hillclaiming will give up and tell that this is what I could find in other words. That is why we say hillclaiming is not guarantee global optimum. Right? It does not guarantee. Yeah, we take a short break. We'll come back and we, you know, continue from here. Right? So this is the same from the textbook. Yeah, it returns the local maximum in our case. What was that local maximum? Can someone tell correctly? What was our local? You know, local maximum. Yeah, all the six should have been non conflicting, but in my case, only four was non conflicting. So I'll return that. No, six is global, correct? Six is the best answer for that problem. All six pairs are non conflicting, but here only four equities. I'll return that. This small algorithm, you can have a look at it. It's the same thing that I showed you, right? The value and so on. We'll come to this slide from, you know, after the break, it's now nine thirty seven. You can take a small break. We can come back in, you know, five minutes, but apparently I'll take some questions, right? I'll first take wherever I'm tagged or, you know, I'll go from the top where I did not see. So, Krithy had an initial question, not clear which one is valid and which one is not. I hope now it's clear, right? Everything in a local search, whatever configuration you give, it's a solution. It's a feasible solution. Correct? You will return that because hill claiming does not guarantee you global. It does not guarantee you the best optimal solution. For this problem, the best optimal solution is nobody's conflicting. If you get that, very happy for you, but if you don't get that, still that is what hill claiming is. It never promise you I will get you the best solution. Correct? So, everything the state itself is a solution. This is a state. So, this is a solution for me. Is this global optimum or not? We have to wait and calculate the fitness and see. Even if it is not the global optimum, you will return that. That is what this algorithm can offer you. I'll keep going down. There were some questions. The global solution is the least number of conflicting pair. Then least number of conflicting pair should be zero. Correct? Nobody should be conflicting. That's the global solution. That's right. So, someone had summarized everything is a solution on the board. That's correct. N-Rage, your point one. Correct. NC should be six. Conflicting should be zero. That's also correct. Non-conflicting pairs should be six, which means conflicting is zero. Nobody's conflicting. That's also correct. Our goal should be to get either NC equal to six or see that depends on the fitness function that you have taken. In my slides, I have taken the fitness value as non-conflicting. Then forget about that zero. You stick to one fitness definition. Are you looking for non-conflicting pair or are you looking for conflicting pair based on that? Then your problem becomes maximization or minimization. Correct? If I'm looking for non-conflicting, I want a value greater than my first fitness. This is for now. I'm interested in can I get a configuration where five pairs are non-conflicting? Can I get a pair where I'm getting six of them non-conflicting? I'm trying to maximize. But if you have chosen some other H of N where you're choosing conflicting, then you will see can I get a configuration where I get my fitness value as three or two or zero? Zero is best for it. So it depends on one fitness value that you determine and solve the whole problem with that intent. But all the three points that you made are correct. Okay, so it's like in an example, is it possible that we will be able to find feasible solutions? Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, there are many cases. I'm known for that. I'll give you some questions where you can't get the global. But as long as you tell that this is what it is, I generated a state, I generated its fitness value. I know this is not global optimum. So what I tried to do was I created a neighbor of that state using my one and in. If you get a global, very good. Otherwise, you leave it there and tell that with this one and an approach, all my neighbors also are bad. Right, I could not get the global optimum. Right, so far so good. I think all the questions mostly are covered here. Do we need to check all the successor configurations? So I asked yes, you have to don't be lazy like me. You had to do all that well. I have just put here some dots and that's why there are also some mistakes and so on. Like don't be me put all the 12 configurations and try to calculate the fitness value. And verify. Okay, let's go down. Sir, six pair I got, but how 12 neighbor? Yeah, that's what we already discussed in one and then when you change the configurations, you will get 12 different boards here. Correct. Here you have 2422, right? I can have if you keep these three constant, only first queen, you are moving. Right. Then I can have 1422, 3422, 442. Correct. Let's assume that I am keeping the first three constant first queen. Let it be in two itself here. Let it be in four itself. Let this be in three to itself. The last queen alone, I'm modifying. Then what I will get already it is into only here. It couldn't move here in one. It could move to three. It could move to four. So again, I'm getting this right like this. If you enumerate right, you will get totally 12 different boards. Luxemann, Luxemann, yeah, try that. Yeah. Is it not very computationally heavy, not at all? Because we are just moving one. Correct. If you see here, we are only changing actually programmatically, if you think in one of the webinars, I'll also tell. You know, the learning facilitator to show you the demo of this, but what we are trying to do here is. Don't think about the board and all that actually in the computer, we're not putting a board and all that. We are only checking this value and we are changing this. Correct. Oops. We are only checking this. We are applying changes here. So instead of this one, you will get a set of 12 in that you are calculating the fitness values for each of them. Right. So it's not very computationally expensive. If you go for two and a or let's say three and an and so on, it's expensive because a lot more board configurations here, you have 54 configurations. So there it becomes more but we'll stick on to one in some practical problems. They're also we should not go 10 and and you know things like that where anything can be moved anywhere and so on because it's computationally expensive. And in some practical applications, one is not good enough also. So you will go to some intermediates. Right. When do we stop? Yeah, that is the next thing we will learn about that. Is it 43? Oh, already 44 come on. Let's get started. If there's some time again, I'll check chat is you later, but so far so good. I'll explain quickly what we did. Right. Can you please give some example where use to and in some practical applications in your assignment, some problems are there, I believe where one alone is not good enough. You might want to go for two and a. And K and N and all that are very different. Right. So don't get confused with that here that N and just means that nearing region, we have expanded only one queen. If you move that's one N and two means two moves you can change and so on. Right, but you are that ML algorithm is very different from this. Okay. Cool. I'll quickly summarize what we did in hill claiming, right. Hill claiming is used where you want local optimum. With the hope that you will get global optimum, you might or you might not like this, right, but it is a simple algorithm. It's a local search algorithm. You can apply on any type of optimization problem where you want to maximize or minimize where what you do. You pick a random state for that problem. It can be queen problem. It can be tile problem or any problem. First you model that problem, ticker random state. From the random state immediately evaluate the fitness function. Whatever you have decided for that problem evaluated it. After you have evaluated it based on maximization or minimization, whatever you wanted, have you attained it? If you have attained it, the problem is over. If you have not attained it, what you will do is you will apply one N in this course only one N in. You will get a bunch of neighbors or successors. In this queen problem, you might have got 12 of them. For all that 12 of them, you calculate the fitness value again with that same definition. Once you got that fitness value, you try to see, I started with that first random state. Is there any other out of those 12 possible successors or neighbors that I generated? Is there anyone who is having a fitness value better? Then I will pick that and I will try to again find its neighbors and move on. If I find that nobody was better, I myself had a 4 fitness value. All the others are having less than that. You will stop the algorithm and tell I could only find this 4. This itself is a real world. Solving this chess problem was a real world problem. People were spending years and years to come up with this. And hill claiming is a better option. It can first tell you that I can find this configuration where 4 of them are non-conflict. So, to take a ways, can he give you global optimum? Umaran says all 1 and 1 successor state is 12 right for this problem. For queen problem, 1 and 1 will use 12 correct. Any random state you take, the next type children will be 12 of them you will get. This will not guarantee you global optimum. That's correct. So, what should we do? Can we randomly restart? Let's say suppose we did all this, we came up with it's children. None of their fitness values were better than my first random state. So, instead of rest stopping and giving up, can I create more, you know, randomly pick another note or state and start again running this algorithm? That's another variant. He'll claiming with random restart. What does this do? Same thing. Select a random state. Evaluate the fitness core of all the successes of the state. And if you find that none of them are good, right? What do you do? You randomly pick something, right? And you repeat again from step 2. Yeah, in this case, I have randomly picked this. I firstly have a question for you. Is this a solution? Yes, no. Yes, why? We are in local search. Any configuration is an answer. Is it global optimum or not? We don't know. Right? We have got the fitness value. Now all of you know how you got this right? So, what is this denotion? This three stands for V1. This four stands for V2. V3, V4. Column 1, 2, 3, 4, all of them are same. V1 means queen 1, where is the is in third? This is in 4, 4 and this you already understood. This colored cell is what? Can someone first tell me what is this colored cell? Colored cell is a fitness value, correct? I have taken the fitness value in my fitness value here is the number of non-conflicting pair. Non-conflicting pair, I will calculate as usual. These two are conflicting. These two are conflicting. These two are conflicting. So, three of them are conflicting. Three of them are non-conflicting. So, I put them here. What is my next step? With the hope that I can get this fitness value to six, I will apply one and M. I will try to generate all its children. How many children are possible? Well, of them are possible. I created them. Let us say in one of them, I have got an answer like this configuration. Let us say suppose. I have got that configuration, where this queen, this was my initial state. This queen is the same place. This is also in the same place. This is also in the same place. This alone when he got moved to the first row, I have got the local optimum. Very nice. I will stop the algorithm. I will say that the global optimum is attained. I will stop it. Other ways. Let us say suppose. You had started in some random configuration, where you generated all your 12 neighbors and none of them were promising. It was not even greater than my initial random state fitness value than what will you do. That is what the title says. Randomly restart. Randomly restart with some other node configuration as your initial configuration and apply your claiming there. Then you might be like, how long can I keep restarting? So Kruthi will be like, I again did not get optimal. Then what they do? How far can I keep restarting by taking some random states? How do we know that fitness value is six is optimal? That is what SMEs are. For any problem, we know the optimal solution. If you don't even know the optimal solution, then that is an NP hard problem. Usually in this course and so on, we will not do that. Because NP hard is a research problem. Nobody has solved them. Shouldn't we run optimal solution within one of the successor states? Maybe not. Maybe not with one and then. Let us say suppose I give you this. This is my initial board configuration. Will you get the answer in the successor? Think about it using one and then you will never generate it. Because only one one you know queens we are moving all that well children of this or the neighbors that you generate that will not have this goal state. Did everyone get this part? It depends on what configuration you started initially. If you start with such a configuration, multiple queens moves are needed to reach this global. This is my final answer. This is my final answer state. If I had started with a configuration where everybody is in one row, reach this. I can't do that in my neighbors. But this was very promising already because already few were closely matching my goal because this queen or there. This was here. This was also here. Only one of them. And because I'm in one and then when I moved it, I found the solution. But maybe your initial was something like this, then you will not get that solution. That is why you are doing random restart. Let me just randomly start from some other state. Maybe I get another configuration. And from that if I do one and then I may reach the goal. One more way is you give a pen tell. Let me not do one and then let me do two and let me do three and then. But in this course, it's not there, but you get the idea. Cool. I asked you the question. How long will you keep doing this? But any given state is an example of random restart. That's also right. But we just terminate as these are all neighbors of this initial you know random state. Termination condition is when no successor has a better value. Just things first. Let's say in some sense you generated it's all you know neighbors none of them have a fitness value better than from where you started you know creating their neighbors. Then you stop it you're like you know this enough is enough for now whatever I've got as the best fitness value. Let me return it. That's one way. Another way could be when we attained the global maximum just like what we did here. I got the place solutions or I'll stop there. Or some people also do this predefined value of K denoting the number of restart required. Let's say I have this K equal to five. So initially I'll do my you know claiming it. If I don't get an optimal solution. I will again do random restart K equal to two again K equal to three I'll do four and five will do within that if I get an answer I'm well and good. Otherwise at fifth I'll stop and tell that no I couldn't. Now you will tell me if this K is equal to one. What does that mean if K is one what is special. If K is one only one time we are running and then we are stopping. Then isn't that same as normal claiming yes no exactly to the life perfect right when you have K equal to one you're just running once if you get the solution good otherwise you stop it that's just your normal claiming right. So these are three different ways right one is either no successor has better stop it there or you attained the global stop it there or you can always go for this. And that many times you will restart if you don't get anything will stop after restart can be switched yeah you can do that in real life people actually do that people actually you know in the restarts they you know they have more hope that okay one and ditch me. And anyway I have my K equal to five or let's say three only I just have two more chances to restart so now let me apply two and let's try to see if it can you know lead me to global. You can do that the summary slide of this right what does this indicate given a state space feasible state spaces because I told in a local search everything is a answer everything is a feasible you know state space. Fitness value I'm considering here I can have a global maximum in my example what was that in my heuristic that I had taken this H of N or F of N or six cool I'm here he claiming says don't generate every possible thing and all that try to see your neighbors from here we're all can you one movement or let's say two movements maybe you reach here that's your local maximum. We do it but in some problems you might not want being maximum you might want minimum values so in this example this is the global minimum what the lowest point the lowest of the lower yet Swedish potato flopso I that was. The log here. Does a local there is a low here there's a little here lower of the lowest is global minimum highest of the east here also there is i here also high here so high i use to the hybrid global maximum. What hill claiming guarantees is wherever you are, you are going some nearby place and trying to get to a local maximum or local minimum based on your problem and you just return that. If you are lucky, you might end up in global maximum. If you were here and in your neighboring hood, this was also a part, you might get global and you are getting lucky, that's it. But at least this local search is not as computationally extensive as you are in form search. So Kirti and others do agree. There we don't even bother about if they are neighbor or not. We start taking all of the possibilities. Right? Yeah, N square is still not bad at all. If you have done an algorithm course, big O of N square is perfectly fine. Two power N is what is bad. N square is still okay. Then your bubble sort and all that is N square. Right? That's hence. Cool. How many techniques have we seen in hill claiming? One was the usual hill claiming. Second one was hill claiming with random restart. You didn't get a solution in that neighbor, randomly pick some other one and start. Third one we are going to do. That is called stochastic hill claiming. Right? It's a very simple stuff only I'll explain it will be even more clear. First step selector random state you already know that I selected it randomly I put it's a valid configuration. This is an answer. Right? Can you explain what this means? What does this stand for? Can you just put that in the chat? No, not fitness. The exact way what I was telling what is that one? What is that for two to indicate? Right? Not just this four I'm telling the whole line. Yeah. That whole line factor correct? It denotes V1 V2 V3 V4 and then there is that colored box which is my fitness value. All of us are on the same page correct? This so far you already know because this just denotes my random configuration and this value I've computed who all are you know. These two are conflicting so four is non conflicting. But what is new in this slide is basically this probability where did this come from? Correct? First two steps you understood selector random state evaluated the fitness code right? It was four. Now you are in that mode of okay let me generate my successors right? But how do we do that? Firstly what is this probability? Correct? I've generated its successors also here. What have I done in this? Can you name? This is my random state. This is my neighbor. What movement cost which was the only movement I did? Which queen got moved? Yeah. Tailquick V1 correct? This V1 came from this first row to second row and that is this configuration here one instead of the trick is two. Like this I will keep generating. How many can you generate? If I am using only one in it only one queen can be moved 12 very good dot dot dot don't lay be lazy like me do it. These are all you know hints for you. If I were you if I were you I will go back and not trust my instructor I will go and draw them. Yeah do that. I've done that for you I have not shown you okay. Let's say all my 12 configurations are drawn and their fitness values are given here. This four comes from here this two is here this two is here and you know some other two and so on. I have not shown all of them but this is my final 12 fitness value correct? Okay do that and now you have to calculate the probability for each of them meaning calculate the probability of selecting a successor based on the fitness score okay I will tell you what. In the previous case you generated 12 of them and if they were not promising you randomly restarted but here we are telling instead of randomly restarting you pick one of that 12 states and make that as your initial and try to do again you know generating its neighbors and let's keep doing that are you all following? In stochastic hill cleaning we are telling you had an initial state you generated its neighbors. In the neighbors let's try to pick one promising one and in that let's apply again you know one and in and you will get its neighbors and so on instead of randomly picking something like hill cleaning with random restart where do you want to do random because that random might be even poorer. They were all agree to me. In the previous examples when we are doing that that randomly what you pick now after the first thing that can even poorer. So we are telling instead of that random from this 12 itself let's try to pick someone who is promising but who is that promising one? Instead of just relying on the maximum right so crudy so max one then I can take but what if there are multiple maximums right so we are telling okay let's try to put some probability even after probability if there are multiple probability same then you can pick anyone okay so how is this probability coming up? But you have calculated all the 12 configuration and their fitness values right in their fitness values what is the unique set you have got here you have got only one two three and four put them down here that is your fitness value f of n correct frequency meaning out of that you know 12 fitness values how many times one is coming in two configurations in two boards I have got the fitness value as one I have written it down here two two right two two two two I have got five times in those five board configurations I have got their fitness values to that I have written out similarly this also I have written out right you divide this 2 by 12 because 12 is a total you know you have considered so 2 by 12 5 by 12 4 by 12 1 by 12 that is going to give you the answers. So here it is 4 it is my fitness value so you will look at this row what is 1 by 12 1 by 12 real quick 0.08 right that is what I have written here similarly if it is 2 5 by 12 is what 0.42 right this is also 0.42 actually because that is 2 only yeah are you waiting this now among this which of them has the largest probability yeah among this 0.42 let us say you will consider for all the others also and among them if there are multiple you will take one of them randomly correct that is what we do here select the next state based on highest probability yeah we could have selected those fitness core is minimum yeah that depends if your fitness function definition itself was that you are considering conflicting pairs my examples I am considering non conflicting pairs right why don't we consider with highest f of n for you know next to state yeah you could do that but stochastic hill claiming says that I will take a probabilistic value sometimes the graph might not be like this it might be like a very stochastic variant like this so we are telling instead of that max or min alone let me calculate the probability of some window the first you know iteration and so on and then let us try to use that but as you are all already you know may be predicting there might be probabilities also which are same right because if these fitness are same the probabilities also will be same then you can pick one of those and then again continue with one and why we are taking frequency based actually probability should be calculated based on the highest h of n that is what we are doing right we are checking in how many board configurations that fitness is there because that might be more promising and that is the intuition behind it there is a lot of theory behind this in your text I will leave it to you to have a look at them but these are the three variants right the first variant is just hill claiming you generate the neighbor if you get a global optimum very good otherwise you stop it in random restart you again randomly pick you know another configuration and again apply and in stochastic hill claiming from all that well you calculate the probability and from there one of them you pick right which one to pick if there are multiple possible neighbors for same fitness value same fitness probability you can pick any one of them no problem so far so good all of you is this clear all of you hill claiming and its three variants we also looked at some termination conditions which you could add right yes no maybe Dermandra just puts a no for which question was that if we get this are we all on the same page okay then a next algorithm is called beam search okay same thing okay very very important guys all of you right first for first square how we get for yeah 4 is the fitness value yeah so it simply means that you folks are not practicing what is the fitness value here for what is that non-conflicting pair this is q1 q2 q3 q4 q1 q2 non-conflicting q2 q3 non-conflicting right q1 q3 non-conflicting q1 q4 non-conflicting so that is 4 who are conflicting q3 and q3 are next to next so they are conflicting q2 q4 they are in diagonal they are conflicting I am only interested in non-conflicting bear that means that so it is so all exercises even in the last class there were some questions if you understood heuristics it is all the same correct sir here f of n is distinct fitness values correct yeah distinct fitness values that's correct I mean I have taken all the 12 from there I have picked up what is the distinct format table correct how we are calculating problem here which problem I think be very specific so how are we calculating problem here means what problem are we calculating are you telling probability yeah so as I told you got the 12 configurations for all that you have the fitness value that is given here then you take the unique values what are unique here in this set 1234 you put it in a table you see how many configurations have that one two times it is there how many times you have 4 only once you have here right so you denote how many times that fitness value had come then you divided by 12 because you are considering the whole set which is your 12 and this number is giving you the probability right so in random had c we select one of the configuration out of 12 no we don't that's the difference beneath in random restart you randomly select some other configuration not from that you know initial random state or their neighbors you start the whole algorithm randomly correct whereas in your stochastic hill claiming you are taking from one of the neighbor based on their probability whichever is promising okay so one short topic and then I'll leave you free for the day we look at genetic algorithms in the next class yeah all of you back again yeah yes no let's worry about the exam and all that later yeah if one probability is repeated but we have loop over those yeah you can pick one of them so in this example I showed there were multiple 0.42 probability pick one of them it's okay cool what is beam search yeah very very important so far in all the hill claiming variants how many initial random state did we pick or how many threads we're running in our computer algorithm program and we started hill claiming one we took one random state then we applied the whole algorithm on that meaning we computed its fitness value we computed the one and and you know we did all of that we were just with one you know in the initial state yeah all of you have everyone come back here right this is the next algorithm called beam search right again you have stochastic beam and all that also but what does that beam mean what does the normal english word beam mean there's a beam of array like a torch light and so on right it's a beam you're going to do multiple things at once that's what we say initially it's care random state at the start itself start with several random states and calculate the fitness value for all their successors and you know you can ignore these two this is stochastic beam that's there in the next slides if a goal is not select the next case states randomly based on probability and kingway i'll show you here between a diagram initially in my previous examples we took one configuration random state you generated their you know neighbors if they were promising it was very good if not you pick randomly something else again they did like this or you pick one among them and started doing like this this is what we're doing in case claiming here what we are doing let's start random let's say k is equal to 3 that's my beam value parallely i start 3 this is also random state this is also random state this is also random state from here i apply my fitness core and all that i apply my fitness core i calculate them from here again i generate it's one and it's one and it's one and it's one and it i keep doing that if any one of them found the global optimum they will immediately inform right they will immediately inform the other people let's say he got it here it informs the others to stop and tell it i've got it you all can stop and we will just you know finish right if goal is not found select the next case states randomly based on probability meaning if you are doing stochastic you know beam search meaning you will again continue you will again keep continuing right so in the next slide i have that stochastic one right if you see here in this case we computed them randomly i started and i started here itself i got the solution so i stopped whereas in this case right we are in stochastic beam right where initially let's say based on k let's say they are two right here also i have an answer or question for you where do i had already got that right if k is one then how does beam search behave if stochastic beam search is deployed with k equal to one then how does it behave exactly it becomes hill claiming only it becomes stochastic hill claiming correct stochastic beam search when k equal to one becomes stochastic hill claiming alone correct so the whole idea if you want to get it right is just that it's all about parallelization have you learned about hudu parallel processing and all that if k is equal to two then we start with two random states from here also we do parallel here also they are not collaborating okay very very important line very important word they are not cooperating or collaborating they are parallely running this is running parallely in let's say server one this running in server two if you have a hudu play structure or even an operating system all this is possible yeah we call it as multi-threaded programming and all that yeah this is running in some thread this is also running parallely in another thread distributed computing very good so parallely they are you know working towards that you know goal and inside each of the thread they are actually applying hill claiming only you get the point rate they are doing the same thing either random restart or so castache and so on and if someone gets an answer they will tell everyone else to stop and the algorithm is over right in this case initially I started with this state right and let's say I start with another state here right this is random start one random state two this will also go on this will generate well state this will also generate well states you will see are they better than my parent if not randomly start again or use stochastic and here also you know see hence one it's it's simply put hill claiming done in a beam way or distributed way that gives us beam search are we all clear with this it's the same concept is exactly the same thing just that parallely you are running multiple you know hill claiming how to select it depends on your domain you know you left to have some empirical evidence domain expertise but already by this course you know it should not be one because if it's one it's useless it becomes hill claiming only if it becomes let's say thousand it's too complex right you don't want to have too high too low but based on your problem statements some past empirical evidence SMEs advice you will pick up a medium number right we might get multiple optimal solutions and we just pick one like we done before correct but remember that all of them are locals optimal solutions or sub optimal ones not the global if one of them get the global the problem will end there they will communicate all the other threats to stop and they will stop there yeah and of course Shreff was also right so in each of these random parallely running threats you can also deploy multiple things like one of them is using one and n one of them is using two and n and you know this one is using random restart this one is using stochastic that's also possible right again it is not guaranteed right it's not at all guaranteed but this has more likelihood of reaching global optimum because you are parallely running and you know doing all this yeah in beam where is the probability involved only in stochastic probability comes it that's correct but I can have stochastic beam also correct so when I you know created the children at first level even in the random state one random state to nobody gave me the global so now I can compute the you know out of these 12 children home to pick next out of this 12 children home to pick next for me further right so in that way I can still use probability here you have right check the probability of selecting the successor this will be done twice because I have K equal to or my first four thread I will do that from a second thread also I'll do that pick one random here not random out of them one of them and here also out of 12 one of them again it will continue yeah so far so good all of you is stochastic beam clear yes no in previous slide 0.5 is same saying probability involved for beam no it is not that's what I was meaning that you know you can you can ignore these lines this also select the next case states randomly allowed yeah if probability is involved then that becomes stochastic this is correct this slide is correct in the previous slide this third and fourth point and this based on probability should not be there this is a normal beam search right how 4223 is result in each box where where is that 4223 I don't get what you mean so these denote the positions of me queen and this is my fitness value we have already learned both of that yeah everyone else are we clear with this yes no is beam search slow compared to other not really because you are parallelizing it right if you have that compute power right if you have like a hudu plec of a system where each of them are exploring different states it's actually faster than your usual hill claiming cool one note then I'll leave you free yeah how does 6 come for stochastic beam search so in some random exploration you will get that fitness value a 6 rate that's where you will stop see beam search is nothing but parallelizing hill claiming correct parallel you are running multiple you know instances that's what it is right and as we already discussed case selected randomly or based on some empirical evidence or some expert value should not be too low too high at least from your example point of view or in your assignments and all the k will be given to you that you know do it for parallelize three instances then something like that you will do I made a statement that if you have three instances k equal to three they're all running parallely and doing their own jobs and one of them gets the global optimum they will try to send others otherwise here also you can put those termination conditions that you know if these many accessors you generate it in each of them you didn't find the global optimum stop it you can do that correct if the goal is not found select the next case states randomly on the probability right it means that what we did exactly here right you take the probability you take the best one and you know out of them if there are multiple same probability pick one of them and from there again you will apply one and end to get their children right that is what the fifth step means but let me complete my point that I was making are these three instances collaborating that's a question for you are they collaborating or are they just working on their own to achieve the global like they are not collaborating or cooperating correct if they start collaborating then that is genetic algorithms where they will start collaborating they're all you know used right it's not like you know separately on their own we'll use some of the ones generated we'll merge them will mutate them and so on this is what we will be learning next we learn two things in the next class right we learn about genetic algorithms we learn about ACI how that is what you have to wait for the next week for example in simple I'll tell you what it does we will learn it later so here it's it's more like at still some stage it is the same okay this is what is the whole genetic algorithm okay this slide alone I'll complete I'll leave you free for the day representing individuals you already know it is the same thing of you know putting them in their locations calculating the fitness value initial population is like that random state applying a fitness function to get my fitness value just like you know the number of conflicting here you know already you have studied this these steps are unique to genetic algorithms where you will generate some parents right you will use those parents to generate the next children and you know you will mutate them and then try to find the answers meaning they're all using each other's data but in the previous it was not like that each of them had their own you know neighbors their own configurations and so on but here you will learn further that all those parent nodes or those neighbor nodes let's say these are all my different board configurations I will use them to generate my children and so on right that's for the next class we will learn genetic algorithms and ant colony optimization both of them are very very interesting algorithms they are created from you know life itself right so genetic algorithms is from human evolution and ACO is from how ants search for food ant colony optimization will learn both of them and then we will move to you know that will complete this module and then we will further into different types of other things we will pause here one announcement is again in this class as well if I go to the last slide right there are exercises exercise one local beam you already know K is given to you everything is given to you go ahead and do here heuristic value is also termed as what I will confuse you like these but you should not get confused we are talking about local beam search and I have given you heuristic value that's actually fitness only right very good there is some exercise on genetic but you can ignore it we will do this after we complete genetics right so that's pretty much for today the announcement is today's 7 pm your assignments will go live don't wait for the deadline definitely I will not extend the deadline it's for June 8 you have 15 days right 14 to 15 days try to sync with your group have calls with them meet them follow the guidelines everything that you need will be available in that one PDF right you cannot do solo assignments it should be in a group if someone doesn't contribute in a group that is also already there in the PDF how you have to handle it you'll have to tell we are the four people who did it we are 100 100 100 100 this person never joined any meetings did not do anything at all and their contribution to this is 0 you will only declare that also and there's a way to do all that there is a format you'll have to zip it everything will be available in that one PDF start doing that right in tuxilla you can find your groups you can find your assignment after 7 pm today start working on them there will be dedicated threats where you can ask your questions use that apart from that if you write emails teams messages nothing will be responded you have to ask your doubts related to assignment in that particular thread which is your problem and ts will daily be monitoring they will answer you completed on time that will be for 12 marks I'll also be posting an announcement on the assignment maybe later today once it goes live I'll do that there's the first announcement the second announcement is you have a webinar coming up there'll be some implementation of you know some of these concepts and you can learn about that also there right and I'll meet you the next Sunday yeah I'll stop the recording here but my only request is practice there may be others all of you right watch the recording again in like 0.75 speed or something pause it try to attempt whenever I ask questions pause the video try to attempt it and then see what I have told or what I do in the video try to solve these type of exercises which are there in my deck and that will help you yeah let me stop the recording I'll stay for another minute