Transcript: ACIWebinar1.mp4
============================================================

you Good evening all welcome to the first webinar of this session. I am Rashmi K so I'll be taking you through this webinar. I hope I am audible. Can anyone of you put it in the chat box whether I'm audible or not? Okay and one more thing I'll be explaining the so today is your first webinar. So today's topic is about the Informat search algorithm. I hope in the theory session you might have studied about the uninformed search. So first I'll take you through what is informat search what is uninformed search in informat search which algorithm we are going to study. So everything we are going to discuss here in case if you're having any doubts regarding any topics please put it in the chat box. Okay so once I once I have completed explaining the topics I'll look into it and I'll clarify each one of your doubts. Is it clear? Okay so yeah I'm Rashmi so welcome you all for this first webinar session. Okay so as I said today we are going to start with the informat search strategy. Right so can anyone of you put it in the chat box what is uninformed search? Anyone of you. So what is uninformed search according to you or which are uninformed search algorithms you have studied. Searching blindly good random search with clue. Okay okay BFS and DFS excellent then. Search with no context yeah. Okay then so uninformed search as one of you said blindly searching. Okay we also call that as a blind search. So uninformed search is nothing but we are going to explore the search space without any additional knowledge about how close a state is to the goal. We will be not be having any information about the goal state so blindly we'll be looking for the goal or the destination that is what we call it as uninformed search. Okay so we are going into explore the load system medically and it can be inefficient your uninformed search algorithms can be inefficient for the larger problems. Okay so which are the common right most common uninformed search algorithm is BFS bread for search DFS depth for search depth limited search that is your DLS iterative deepening depth for search and uniform cost search. So all these comes under your uninformed search strategies. So basically this uninformed search strategies are simple to implement so obviously it is a guaranteed solution because blindly we'll be searching all the possible paths in order to reach the destination so obviously it is going to guarantee us the solution. And the next thing is the major drawback or disadvantage or limitation of your uninformed search algorithm is it is bit slow because we are going to explore all the paths right and we are going to explore some unnecessary notes also okay and obviously the time complexity and the space complexity will be more in case of uninformed search strategies. So finding a path in a maze without knowing where the exit is that is what your uninformed searches no I have not yet shared the screen and just doing the recap of uninformed search okay so basically uninformed searches. Finding a path in a maze without knowing where actually the exit is right then what is informal search that is what we are going to study in this webinar got it so we study what is informal search so now I'm going to start sharing the screen. I hope my screen is visible now. Yeah so now today we are going to study about in this webinar about the uninformed search so uninformed search one more name is blind search so the next one is informed search or we also call it as a heuristic search okay so what is basically this informed searches. So uninformed search it inform its search algorithms is going to use a heuristic information to guide the search toward the goal efficient three means we are not going to search or we are not going to look for a destination blindly we'll be having some information regarding where actually the goal state is or in which way or in which direction we have to move in order to reach the destination that is what we call it as an information. So uninformed search algorithm is going to make use of heuristic information to search toward the goal efficiently now this is a new word what is heuristic right most of you might be thinking so heuristic is nothing but it is just an estimated cost from any note to the bull node okay so heuristic function we usually represent the heuristic information. So uninformed search algorithm is going to use a specific knowledge it is more efficient okay so which are the inform search algorithms is we have best for search greedy best for search a star algorithm is going to use the answer to the question. And IDA star we have rpfs also recursive best for search and even we have a star algorithm if time permits will go through the variance of a star algorithm also got it so inform it search or one more name for it is a heuristic search so basically informed search is nothing but it make use of the heuristic functions to guide the search toward the goal towards the destination got it so heuristic. So the function is nothing but an estimated cost from any note to the goal state for example right now I am in Thumkur got it so if I want to go to Bangalore if I ask some person how long will it take or what is the distance between Thumkur and Bangalore so basically the other person will estimated it might be 60 kilometer or 70 kilometer right exactly he is not telling he is approximately hill that from Thumkur to Bangalore it is not going to be a good thing to do. So this is the distance between Thumkur and Bangalore is around 70 kilometer right so like that that guessing part that's what we call it as a heuristic got it so the first informed search algorithm which we are going to study here is the a star algorithm got got it so are we also call it as a star search okay so basically what is this one real time example I'll give you for this informer search it is nothing but finding a route using your Google. So most of you might be using the Google maps right so most of your Google maps works on your a star algorithm means it uses the distance estimates approximately right so whenever you look to move from one place to another place it will show you all the possible possible parts right and it will tell you to which road to avoid and why you have to avoid because there is a traffic slow moving traffic it will tell you right so it is nothing but finding a route using the Google maps is one of the most important things that you can do is to get it. So for example of the informal search algorithm got it so basically the main difference between your uninformed search and the informer searches your uninformed search is not going to use any kind of heuristic but whereas in the informed search will make use of the heuristic your blind search it is sorry your uninformed searches blind search whereas your informer search is a heuristic search at a gold direct search okay. search the efficiency is very low in the information search the efficiency will be high in an informed search the speed is slow in the informed search obviously the speed is fast memory usage is in an uninformal search but whereas in the informed search it is optimized got it yeah I'll explain you the practical problems just give me some time I'll take you through the webinar okay yeah yeah so now we'll study about the ASTAR search algorithm so ASTAR search algorithm as you see yeah not no no actually I'm not changing the slide I'm still in the ASTAR algorithm okay so ASTAR search so in the ASTAR search it is going to expand the node which lies in the closest path okay which lies in the closest path that is the estimated chip cost so basically whenever we are using the ASTAR algorithm for each and every node we have to calculate the evaluation function that is f of n got it to calculate this f of n is evaluation function is your f of n is a summation of g of n plus h of n where g of n is nothing but the goal or the cost to reach the node or path cost g of n is usually the path cost h of n is nothing but the expected cost to go from node to the goal node okay that is what we call it as a heuristic function I told right then approximated path from that to the goal node okay f of n is we are the summation of your g of n and the h of n got it now when can we say that the ASTAR algorithm is going to give it optimal solution is if it is going to satisfy this two conditions one is admissibility and then next one is consistency okay so what is basically admissibility so in the ASTAR algorithm we are going to calculate the heuristic right h of n so this h of n heuristic function we can say it is admissible is it should never overestimate the path cost okay if it is not overestimating the path cost then we call the chance admissible never overestimate the true cost okay so what is this overestimation suppose you are a shew you go to a shop right so as you see the shoes in your mind you will calculate approximately the cost of the true right so in your mind you might calculate the cost of the shoes might be 20,000 got it you have guessed it okay after seeing the shoes brand and all you might have guessed it the cost of the shoes might be approximately 20,000 but when you go to a shop keeper and ask him the cost so he will tell that the cost of that shoes is it's only 10,000 got it so in your mind how much you have guessed it is 20,000 but what is the actual price of that shoes of actual price of that shoes is it's actually only 10,000 right so like this we should not overestimate it so whenever we are calculating the heuristic value for any known never overestimate the cost got it you should never overestimate it the actual distance between tumkult to banglure is 70 kilometer right when I go and ask a person what is the distance between tumkult and banglure so whenever he is telling the cost it should be less than or equals to 70 kilometer he should not tell it might be 100 kilometer understanding so that is what we call it as a admissible so a heuristic is admissible when we are not going to overestimate the true cost got it so one more condition I told so here you can see admissible heuristic one that never overestimate the cost to reach the goal got it and the next one is consistency so what basically the consistency is the one more name for the concept is we also that has a monocity okay sorry monotonicity so what actually this consistency is so here the consistency is also one of the property of the heuristic function which we are going to use in the etha such algorithm got it so a heuristic function h of n is consistent if for every node n and each and each of its successor n dash the following condition should hold that is the h of n should be less than or equals to you can see that the actual path cost to reach from here right the actual path cost to reach from n to n dash plus the new heuristic value of this h of n dash right so h of n is nothing but here the h of n is nothing but the heuristic estimate from the node n to the goal state okay here see of n comma n dash is the actual cost is the actual cost to go from n to n dash and h of n dash is nothing but the heuristic estimate from the successor node to the goal node okay so what actually is this I will explain you with an example so here I explain it so suppose if I want to take the cost from a to b I am explaining the consistency concept so the cost from a to b at it be its two right now the heuristic h of a or the heuristic value or h of a is five and the heuristic value of h of b is and the heuristic value of h of a should be less than or equals to the actual cost to reach from a to b plus the heuristic value of b got it understanding yeah so what is the cost to reach from a to b is two right plus what is the heuristic value of v it is two so two plus sorry sorry this is three yeah two is also fine okay we take it as two or three so what is the heuristic value of a it is five so five is less than or equals to five then only we call it as a consistency got it so when can the ester algorithm can give the optimal solution is if it is going to satisfy both that is admissibility and consistency okay so this is one more example which I have taken for the consistency you can go through it so basically it should follow that triangle inequality concept got it so now I am going to explain this ester algorithm using one more example okay so can you see this so we are taking one example so this is the example graph for this graph I am going to apply the ester algorithm got it any doubts still here regarding admissibility or consistency H of n should be known in order to calculate the ester algorithm if you are going to apply the ester algorithm then obviously we have to calculate the H of n and there are various ways to calculate the heuristic value either you can go with the Euclidean distance or Manhattan distance so we will let you know how to calculate the H of n or they might in the exam they might give you directly the H of n value or else they might tell you the way to calculate the H of n if if it is informal search algorithm the H of n should be defined okay yes sir yeah so consistency is nothing but see here this formula has to be satisfied that is nothing but the triangle inequality what does it says the H of n should be less than or equals to and you see this H of n the heuristic value of any node okay here the estimated cost from the node being to the goal should be less than or equals to the actual cost the actual path cost from n to n dash plus the heuristic value of that n dash okay so that is what I have telling here here I have taken two nodes here here represents n be represents n dash got it so the distance the actual distance or the actual cost from a to b is how much to got it the heuristic value H of a is 5 the heuristic value this is H of b is 3 okay heuristic value of a is 5 heuristic value of b is 3 now I am going to apply this triangle sorry consistency formula what is it what is it stays the H of n should be less than or equals to the actual path cost from n to n dash plus heuristic value of the n dash right so here you can see the heuristic value of a should be less than or equals to the cost right the actual path cost from a to b plus the heuristic value of b now what is the actual path cost from a to b the actual path cost from a to b is 2 plus what is the heuristic value of b here you can see the heuristic value of b is 3 so 2 plus 5 what is the heuristic value of a it is 5 so this we call it as a consistency 5 is less than or equals to 5 got it so here I have taken one graph okay so for this graph we are going to apply the a star algorithm okay we are going to apply the a star algorithm and we are going to find the path from source node to destination node got it now if you see this graph okay can in they have not mentioned which is the source node which is the destination node they saw no one more thing while in your exam while solving a problem on the a star algorithm is they might tell you the initial state starting node they might tell okay but how will you identify the destination is with the help of the heuristic values okay now if you see this graph you can see 2 colored right you see the integer values which are differently colored yes or no one in black color one more in red color right the values the integer values which you are seeing in black color present the heuristic values okay H of n okay for a the heuristic value is 6 for b it is 4 for c also it is 4 for d it is 2 for e it is 2 and for f it is 0 got it now if you see here the shell node or the starting state is a here got it now which is my goal state here how to identify it whichever node will be having the heuristic value as 0 that will be my goal node got it how why see the definition of heuristic value what does the heuristic value definition says the H of n what does it says it is the estimated cost from that node to the goal node right when you see the heuristic value of a as 6 right what does it represent it represent that a is a distance of 6 from the goal node f but it b is at a distance of 4 from the goal node f c is at a distance of 4 from the goal node f d is at a distance of 2 from the goal node f e is at a distance of 2 from the goal node f and f is at a distance of 0 from the goal node f understood so basically in the in in form of search in your exam also if they didn't mention the goal state how to identify the goal state is whichever nodes heuristic value is 0 it's goal state that will be my goal state okay I hope it's clear now we'll start with step one so what does the step one says so step one can you see the first step one is initialization right in the initialization can you see we are maintaining the tool list here right which are those two lists one is the open list one more is the closer list right what is this open list and closer list mom open list is nothing but the node which you are about to visit okay here right the first node to be visited is which one yeah right the nodes which you are about to that we will put it in the open list and the node which we have already visited that we will be putting it in the closer list okay why we have to maintain this because we will not end up visiting the same node again and again okay there might be a chance that the user might visit the same node again and again so in order to avoid that we will keep track off the nodes which are about to visit and which have already been visited okay the node which are we explored are yet to be visited we will put it in the open list and the node which we have already visited we will put it in the closer list so in the step one right now I'm going to visit the first node that is node here initial state right so that's why I have put in the open list yay and the closer list I have not it visited any nodes so that's why the closer list is empty got it so next is step two yeah here you can see right so don't confused here we will see it line one by one okay yes sir five and three is the assumption yeah if if is a destination it should be consistent only if it is inconsistent we are not going to consider it yeah whichever nodes heuristic value is zero that will be considered as the goal node no you can't start with any nodes if you are going to start with any node then if we are local search algorithm we won't call it as a informant search in the informant search they will tell you they will specify you we should be your start node okay and goal node they might specify if not then with the help of heuristic value you need to find it I did yeah what's the function that calculated I tell you now got it so you can see here now step two so I hope step one is clear for everyone okay so here the integer values which we have presented in the black color is the heuristic value which we have taken right in your exam they might be heuristic value or they ask you to calculate the heuristic value of each and every node what is the way to calculate the heuristic value is they will tell you also calculate right basically you can apply manhat and distance and ukulean distance to calculate the heuristic values got it and the values which are in red color right because are the actual path cost okay from a to b the actual path cost is one from a to c the actual path cost is four from b to d the actual path cost is two from c to d the actual path cost is two okay the one in the red color that represents the actual path cost the one with the black color present the heuristic values got it now step one is done right step one is which node we will maintain tool is open list and the closer list the node which are about to be visited that will put it in the a and a node which we have already been visited that we will be putting in a closer list got it now the first node visited is node a right for the node a we have to calculate it up f of a can you see here yeah here so for a we are calculating f of a what is a formula for calculating I told you right f of n is equal to g of n plus f h of n so this is my f of n so n is here node a okay plus sorry f of n is equals to d of n okay the actual path cost plus h of n okay now what is g of a actual path cost right actual path cost is nothing but the distance from node a to node a because at the beginning we visited only one node right that is node a so what is the actual path cost from node a to node a is 0 plus what is the heuristic value of a heuristic value of a is 6 so that's what I have taken here so 0 plus 6 is 6 got it now node a we have already explored it we will check whether node a is our goal state or not node a is not our goal state right what we will do we will move the node a to the closer list can we see here so okay so a is the node which we have already visited so that I am going to put it in the closer list from a which are the neighboring nodes of a can you see from this diagram from this graph the neighboring nodes of a is it is b and c got it so from a will go to b and c got it now for b also I have to accept f of b okay f of b is equals to the actual path cost to move from g a to b so g a g that is actual path cost to move from a to b plus the heuristic value of b got it so here you can see the actual path cost to move from a to b it is 1 and the heuristic value of b is 4 okay so that's why it is 1 plus 4 is equals to 5 similarly with the c here the cost the actual path cost to move from a to c that is g of a comma c plus h of c so what is the actual path cost to move from a to c it is 4 okay plus what is the heuristic value of c 4 so 4 plus 4 it is 8 got it now a b c a is the node which we have already visited now which should be the next node seen the open list which one it is it is b right so always c here b is also there c is also there mav why did you choose b the answer is we will always choose the node which will be having the less evaluation function noted so here what is f of b f of b is 5 what is f of c f of c is 8 so out of 5 and 8 which is having less f of n value it is b right so the next node to be explored will be okay you can see here in the open list c will remain as it is so for b which node is the n i 1 the next node we are going to visit it is b right we will check again b is my goal state or not b is not my goal state and move it to the closer list which is the node that is n i b to be it is b okay so that's why in the open list we have added c as it is d is the one more node which we have added here got it and a and b are nodes which we have already visited got it so here you can see a is over b is over c is over now which is the next node d got it here one more thing you have to keep it in mind please concentrate here here also we have to calculate f of d okay so when you are calculating f of d right how to calculate f of d so here you can see the actual pathcars to move from b to d plus the heuristic value of d okay now what is the actual pathcars to move from b to d c here from b to d it is 2 right but don't take it as 2 okay it will be wrong so this is what the important point I wanted to tell okay the actual pathcars from b to d you are not supposed to take it as 2 why because how did you reach d first you came from a to b from b to d you move right so the actual pathcars should be always a to b what is the actual pathcars from a to b it is 1 plus b to d is 2 okay so it is 1 plus 2 okay all you should always take the actual pathcars starting from the initial node initial state got it so the actual pathcars to reach b to d don't take it as 2 it is from the initial state a to b b to d so 1 plus 2 is 3 plus heuristic value of d is 2 so it is 1 plus 2 plus 2 that is 3 plus 2 is 5 got it now which is an external to be explored so here see the open list in one list we have cn d but for c the evaluation function is 8 the for d the evaluation function is how much fight so the next node to be visited will be d okay so here you can see in the next step okay step 4 the next node to be visited is d okay from d where we will go the in the open list you can see c will remain as it is for d which is the neighboring node for d f is the neighboring node right so that's what I have written from a to b b to d d to f got it now next what I have to calculate I have to calculate the evaluation function f of f how will you calculate the evaluation function f of f is equals to g of actual path cause from d to f again I am telling don't take the actual path cause from d to f as only one no you should always start from the initial state it is 1 that is from a to b plus b to d which is 2 plus d to f 1 plus 2 plus 1 it is 4 plus what is the heuristic value of f it is 0 can you see here it is 4 so in the open list now f is also visited right if I check whether it is my goal state or not yes if is my goal state what will I do I will move you to the closer state closer list so I got the actual path I got my goal node right so here is the path so what is the path from a to b b to d d to f with the path caused as 4 got it so this is one more example which you can give it as a try so here also I am telling the one the values which are in red color right that represent the heuristic values the one which are in blue right that represents the actual path caused right now from this example can anyone of you tell me which will be my initial state and which will initial state is node a which will be my goal state for this example anyone of you yeah it is g yeah I hope a star algorithm is clear so now I will go with the actual implementation so always remember in the informant search compare sorry you have to go with the heuristic value okay either they will specify okay that these are the heuristic values or they will ask you to calculate the heuristic values got it next thing is initial state compulsory they tell you which is the initial state or which is the stack state goal state you should identify goal state you will you have to identify with the help of heuristic value so whichever node is having the heuristic value as 0 that we have to consider it as a goal state got it now I am going to share the Python file okay I hope the screen is visible so this is what the Python code looks like for your a star implementation so here you can see the first thing what I am going to do I am going to describe the graph got it so here so what is the graph nodes I am going to have is I am going to have a graph with these nodes that is from a to g got it so here you can see if I take a node a okay so what does this indicates so this indicates for node a b and e are the neighboring nodes and from a to b the actual path cost is 2 this is g of n the value which you are seeing here b comma 2 2 is the g of n value the actual path cost a to e it is 3 again from here for b right for b which will be the which is a neighboring node for b it is again a b to c b to g okay so this is the actual path cost g of n I am repeating it is g of n got it so totally in a graph we have a six nodes that is what we are defining here and then what are we going to do here we are going to call the function what is it a star I will go and here can you see we are passing two parameters here right so which are those two parameters first one is the initial state next one is the goal state so which is your initial state or the initial node the initial state or the goal initial node is a okay and the goal state or the destination is g so this is the function call so the control will be transferred to your function definition so we will see that now function definition so here you can see right define a star I will go what is this start node start node is a and which is an x1 g right so g is your goal node that is stop node okay so this is a function right that defines to find the shortest path from a to g okay and next one can you see here there while solving the problem I told right we were maintaining two list open list and the closer list so here we are maintaining the open set and the closer set okay so what does the open set contains open set always contains the nodes that are yet to explore right so it contains the nodes that are discovered but not it fully explored got it we are about to explore it so what does it so it is going to create a set of characters instead of a set with one element got it so correct so here you can see that's the first node is a right so that is what will be there in the open set got it so next one is closer set why do we use this closer set so closer set is it is going to store the nodes that have already been completely explored okay so for that reason we are going to use this closer set okay so next one is this part so this is we are going to store the actual cost right from the start node to the every node okay so we have started with the node a so from that particular node to every node we are going to store the actual cost in G okay it is a dictionary and the next one can you see parents so this is it is going to store the parent of each node this this dictionary okay it is going to store the parent of each node why we have to store the parent of each node is because to reconstruct the path I'm initially I moved from A to B B to D I went D to G I went sorry D to F I went in the previous case the graph which I have taken so once I reached the destination F I have reached but how will I know from how did I come F right so that's why every time you visit a node I have to store its parent got it so that's why to store the parent of each and every node we are going to make use of this dictionary got it so next is what and then next is one the initialization okay so here G of start node that is nothing but the actual path cost from the start node to itself is 0 right the path cost to A right it is 0 so that's what we are going to do do here G of start node is 0 and the root node right that is our first node A it doesn't have any parent node also so that's why the parent of start node is start node itself okay so the start node is its own parent so that is the root of the path got it so which is an x1 here so what is this while loop will do so this while loop is going to run as long as there are nodes to explore okay so that's why the length of the open set is greater than 0 once the length of the open set becomes 0 I'm going to stop there so if not if the length of the open set is not 0 the while loop will be repeating okay it is going to run as long as the nodes to explore got it and then x1 why this n is equals to n is because it is going to initialize the variable to store the current node got it and here so what actually we are going to do here is in this for loop in this two statements this so here we are going to select the node n with the lowest for fn value I told you right from A we move to right B f of value was 5 at c f of n we was 8 right so out of 5 and 8 which one we selected 5 that is node B okay so in order to select that okay select the node n with the lowest f of n value we are going to make use of this got it this for loop so g of n is the actual cost and h of sorry and h of n is the here is that is estimated cost to the goal node got it now next here so what actually we are going to do here is here we are going to do the goal check or we also call it as a did it okay so if n is the goal or it has no neighbors do nothing here so exploration continues after work that's why we have given the pass there okay or if not we are going to explore the neighbors that's why we have used the for loop here it is going to iterate through neighbors m of node n and the h cost is the weight got it now here but what are we going to do in this if statement sorry sorry sorry yeah here so here we are going to check if the neighbors is unvisited okay so if neighbors is unvisited what are we going to do you can see here we are going to add there to the open set adds than able to the open set set n as its parent and it is going to update its path cost got it if better path is found okay so what are we going to do we are going to update it okay so here this one we are going to check if a shorter path is found through n if we have found we are going to update its cost and the parent okay and then what are we going to do we are going to move the node back to the open set for the revaluation so here this is for the failure case if no node could be selected then the no path exists okay and here we are going to do the path reconstruction so here if the goal is reached we are going to initialize the path list this one loop right this while loop is going to backtrack from the goal to the start using the parent and links okay and here it is reverse path dot reverse and path dot open it is going to start node and reverse as the path okay so here it is going to display and return the path okay so next what are we going to do we are going to mark the node ns fully explored and if no path found we are going to show it as a no path found okay and this is the neighbor function that is the deflation of your neighbor okay so here we are going to return the neighbors of the node v and in this if condition right we are going to return the neighbors of the node that's why we are going to use that if condition and this is a heuristic function is going to return the heuristic distance to the goal okay here you can see yay is at a distance of 11 from the goal state g and you can see the heuristic value of the goal state is 0 so these are the predefined heuristic values okay and I hope this is the code part any doubt in this sometimes domain expert will be given but sometimes you need to calculate it yeah till now whatever the previous year question paper I have seen they have not asked you to write the pseudo code anyway sir or your instructor might be uploading a previous year question papers so go through once but according to my knowledge till now they didn't ask to write the pseudo code any doubt in the Python code value a star algorithm admissibility and system C if not I'll go with one more variant of a star that is ID a star okay we'll go with the ID a star if you're having any doubts please you can put it in the chat box I have not a share the screen I'm still waiting for you if anyone of you are having any doubts to clarify it that's it yeah yeah you'll get the assignments on this search algorithm on informant search you'll get don't expect the same graph which I have explained they'll ask you that simple graph they might ask you in terms of like I told you right may as example they might take okay may as example they'll give you their tele which is a start stay okay and they'll ask you to calculate the heuristic values also not only numericals will change but exactly not the graph like this slide difference concept is the same okay so there'll be a slight difference yeah you'll get the most of your assignments will be on the informant search on the informant search and local search local search probably might not get but on the informant search differently yielded it is informant search always keep it in mind you have to calculate the heuristic values because without heuristic values we cannot calculate we cannot solve the problem you This code and this file Ppt file, everything whatever I have explained in the webinar will be posted in the taxis. You can access there under the webinar one document. You will get all these details Python code, the Pptnall. In Assign Man says you have to write the Python code also. They will give you the problem statement in your assignments and they will ask you to write a Python code for it and they will give you the two test cases also. The two test cases has to be passed. Okay, then if no dots I will go with IDA staff. Yeah, that's what one of you might have which algorithm does not require to maintain the state. Right. Okay, once I explain this IDA staff you will you answer me this question. Okay. All staff your uninformed search algorithm will never maintain the state only in A star algorithm. We do access the code just we saw the groups file as way to see. Regarding that and all your instructor might give you the clarification regarding the groups and all. Okay, I don't have any information regarding that. Okay, let's start with one more variation of your A star algorithm that is IDA staff. Let me share the screen. Yeah, I hope the screen is visible. Okay. Yeah, so why we have to go for this IDA staff and we have a staff that is one of the question which will obviously comes to your mind. So the main reason why we are going for this IDA staff is basically your A star algorithm is going to store all the notes. Got it. So every node it visited right it is going to store all the notes value your A star algorithm. So in order to avoid that we are going with IDA staff. So basically in your A star algorithm the time complexity is more in the A star algorithm in the it is in terms of exponential. Okay. So in order to avoid that okay in order to have a better time complexity we are going with the IDA staff iterative deepening A star algorithm. It is similar to your iterative deepening depth first search which you have already studied in your uninformed search. Got it. So if you know that clearly then obviously this will be understood. Got it. So usually a star algorithm will make use of open list close in list but in the IDA star it is only the concept of recursion. Okay. So your IDA staff it's little bit similar or which strategy it is going to use is it is the depth first search with iterative deepening. Okay. That's what I told you one of the major drawback or the limitation of your A star algorithm is it is going to store all the generated notes. That is one of the major drawback of your A star. Okay. So how to avoid it we'll see that now using the IDA staff. Okay. Now here as you can see the first node to be visited is Arat. Okay. I'm not the right person to answer that question. Please contact your instructors. Okay. Yeah. Coming back to the IDA staff. Now with what are the limitations of A star we'll go with IDA staff. Got it. Now here in the first node we'll see the first node. Okay. We'll go with IDA staff. Got it. Now here if you see this graph. Okay. Please listen carefully. If you listen carefully. You'll not be having any doubts. If not you'll have n number of doubts. Okay. So first node. Yeah. I'll take the highlighter here or else it will be very difficult for me also for you. Okay. So here you can see here actually here the first state is Arat. So here my initial state is Arat and my goal state is Bucharest. Okay. So I have to move from Arat to Bucharest. Here there is a graph to move from Arat to Bucharest. Okay. If you want you can go through your instructor PPPT. You might find this from Arat to Bucharest that map is there. So you can have the G of an actual path cost also and you can see the heuristic values also. Got it. Now the first node starting node to be explored is what Arat that's what we studied in the A star also. So the initial state is Arat. Now as soon as I take the Arat what I have to do I have to calculate the F of A. Right. So here also I'm calculating the evaluation function of the Arat. Okay. That is G of n plus H of. So G of n will be obviously 0 because that is an initial state. Right. So we have to move from Arat to Arat is 0 plus what is the heuristic value of Arat it is 366. So we have already defined it there is a table. Where the stick values of all these nodes are defined. Okay. And there is the actual path cost also inside that map. Got it and I have calculated the evaluation function here also we are going to calculate the evaluation function. Same formula F of n is equals to G of n plus H of n got it. Now I have calculated the evaluation function of the Arat. Okay. It is 366. Now after calculating the evaluation function of Arat now I check whether Arat is my goal state or not. No, Arat is not my goal stick. Okay. Now what I have to do I have to explore right. How will I explore I will check which are the nodes which are the neighboring nodes of Arat. Now which are the neighboring nodes of Arat we have C, B, T, M, S, O, R and Z. So these are the three nodes that are nibal to the Arat got it. Now one more thing which you have to see here is can you see here at the top in this rectangle. I am going inside that rectangle. I am storing some value here. So basically Arat is the initial state or the first state which I am going to explore before that I have not explored any nodes. So I am going to take this we usually call it as a backup value. Okay. Because one of the major limitation of your A star algorithm is that it is going to store all the generated nodes. Right. So in order to avoid that only no need to store all the generated nodes. Okay. So in order to store the only the nodes which are required for that purpose only we are going to keep this backup value got it. So here you can see the backup value because Arat is the first node I have visited. So backup value I have put it as infinity got it. Now Arat is not my goal state I have to explore the nodes that are adjacent to that. So each other is different but it is CbU, Timis and Zerid. Often that what I have to do. Similarly for F of here I have to like the F of the evaluation function. I have to calculate the evaluation function for CbU, Timis or and Zerid got it. So the F of N value of CbU is 393 here it is for Timis or it is 447 for Zerid that is 449 got it. Now for Arat then I bring nodes are CbU, Timis or and Zerid right now after Arat which node I should visit. Now whether I have to go to CbU, Timis or or Zerid how will I decide. So whichever node will be having less evaluation function that will be the next node to be visited. So as you all know CbU's evaluation function is less it is 393 but whereas for Timis or and Zerid it is 447 and 449. So obviously after Arat the next node to be visited will be Cb got it. Now comes that important point. Now can you see this is the backup value right the backup value is it is not infinity infinity and is no more a backup value for the CbU. Okay for the CbU the evaluation function is 393 right after 393 which node is having the less evaluation function that value will be considered as a backup value. Okay so after 393 the next minimum value is 447 so that 447 will be considered as a backup value okay so compared to infinity 447 is lesser right so that's why the infinity will be updated to 447 got it. Now next whether CbU is my goal state no CbU is not my goal state is or no now what I have to do obviously have to explore the nodes that are adjacent to CbU now which are the nodes that are adjacent to CbU can you see here Arat, Fagoras or idea will see. Got it again in the same way what I have to do I have to calculate the F of N calculate the F of N 646 is there 415 671 413 right now out of 413 671 415 and 646 which is having lesser value 413 again it will compare whether this 413 is lesser than 447. If this 413 is lesser than 447 then only I'm going to explore this will see if I didn't get a value which is lesser than this backup value right if this value is more it will tell that don't explore that node I have one more node whose evaluation function is lesser than this right so here the backup values 447 and the evaluation function of the node which I'm a board takes so it is for 13 which is lesser than that. So next node to be explored will be will see I got it so now the evaluation function of your will see is 413 right now again I have to check which node will be having less after 413 which is the next evaluation function minimum evaluation. So which is having minimum of 415 this is 671 415 646 right now out of these 3 after 413 which is the next minimum it is 415 now can you see the will see us backup value has been updated to 415 which is lesser than 447 got it now next again I'll check whether we'll see is my goal state no we'll see I's not my goal state what I have to do. I have to explore the nodes that are adjacent to will see I so which are the nodes that are adjacent to will see I crave or pity and see you got it again in the same way calculate their evaluation function got it now come to the next step here now if after 413 right which was the next function I have to visit 526 nodes. 417 right after 413 the next step F of N is 417 but no the backup value of will see what it is telling 415 it is telling don't go to PTSD whose evaluation function is 417 there is a node whose evaluation function is just 415 so go back to there. So that's why after will see I am not going to explore the graveyard test your CPU you can see here what I'm going to do I'm going to explore Fagoras because it is telling the backup value is telling the backup value of will see I'm telling it is 415 so I'm going to explore the Fagoras here for will see I fight 26 417 553 is neighboring value right so which is a minimum 417 so that will be considered as the evaluation function. So that's the function function you can see here for will see that evaluation function is 417 now I am going to explore the Fagoras for Fagoras which are the neighboring nodes CPU is there but your is there again I have to calculate the F of N right now what will be the backup value for Fagoras the evaluation function of Fagoras is 415 but the backup value will be 417 got it now next. This is my goal state no Fagoras is not my goal state which is an X node to be explored the backup value is telling there is a load with the evaluation function as 417 I have to go and explore the will see it got it the moment I start exploring the will see the backup value will become 447 because that is an X minimum value. So now I'm not going to store the Zerin no where here in here what I mean a star I have to store that Zerin also so here also these are a for idea all these nodes not required to store that's why they don't yes that algorithm will always store all the nodes that are generated but your ID a star is not going to store all the nodes that are generated. Got it now will see again we are going to explore the nodes that are adjacent to will see a Kreeva Pittestian CBO again same way we have to calculate the evaluation function it's 526 417 553 so Pittest is evaluation function is less we are going to explore the Pittest the backup value I can't take 526 because it is greater than 447 I can't go with CBO also it is 553. So the backup value whatever the will see is having the same backup value I'm going to take for the Pittest to also next explore the Pittest the nodes that are adjacent to Pittest is Bucharest Kreeva will see. Right now which is an X naught to be explored it's Bucharest because back the Bucharest evaluation function is 418 the backup value is 447 so more than that so obviously have to go with the Bucharest right now when I'm trying to explore the Bucharest whether Bucharest is. Yes, Bucharest is my goal state I'm going to stop them result here because search here because I got my goal loan right see. Here will see I was 415 how it became 417 yeah let me share the screen then I was 15 right how it became 417 it's a backup value because if you see here yeah will see us was 415 only okay the backup value was 415 only the moment we explored will see yeah right the neighbors can you see here the neighbors of will see I scrab or Pittest and CBO is all know will see us backup value was 415 you're absolutely correct okay the moment I explore the nodes of CBO 526 417 553 right the evaluation function of the neighboring nodes now according to the definition what I have to do after will see I have to explore the node which is. Explore the node which is having less evaluation function now according to this Pittest is having the less evaluation function right but the backup value is telling that don't go with 417 there is one more node whose backup value is 415 okay so which node is that it is so I have to go and explore the figure us right but we have already explored the CIA right we have generated evaluation function also so the evaluation function of which node is less Pittest is less right so that has that is updated to your will see you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you you So here is the actual Python implementation for the IDA staff. So here also in the same way we are going to define the history values. So you can see the URISTRIC value of the E is 0 then obviously that will be my goal state. Okay. The URISTRIC function next is this is the graph representation. So this is nothing but a dictionary which is going to store the URISTRIC or the estimated distance from the from each node to the goal node. Okay. And here I'm going to just return that URISTRIC values. Okay. And this is getNibers that is to get all the Nibers of the node V. This getNibers function node. Okay. So it is if no node exists in the graph it returns its Nibers. Otherwise it is going to return an empty list. So here you can see the empty list. And this is the recursive such function for the IDA staff. Okay. So here the path is for the current path and G is that is a cause from the stack to the current node. And you can you see something called as threshold here. So this threshold it is going to store the current costly with the backup value I told right. So that will be stored in this threshold and goal is the target node. Okay. So why we have taken this path of minus one is it gets the last node in the current path. Okay. That is the current state. And this is the F cost calculation. G plus heuristic of the node. The G of N is the actual path cost and H of N is the heuristic estimate. Okay. So whenever the F of that value is greater than the threshold. If the estimated total cost exceeds the threshold, stop exploring this path and return the cost. Got it. And here we are going to check the goal test. So it iterates over the small node. We will do the recursive call and once the goal found the case. So we'll keep track of the smallest of course that exceeded the threshold will remove the last node to explore the another path and it is going to return the minimum EF value that exceeded the threshold. So that is what we are going to use that function. And this is for the IDA step. Okay. I'll explain the code from the beginning. I hope the screen is visible. So this is for defining the heuristic functions. As discussed in the A star algorithm. Got it. And this is the graph node. Okay. Like A2G I have taken a same node. The nodes which have adjacent to it. And this is the this one. This is we are going to end out the nibers of that particular node. If we don't have any neighbors for that particular node, we are going to return an empty list. Okay. Now this is your actual search algorithm DFS search. Right. So how many parameters is it is taking for parameters? It is taking that is path G threshold and goal path is nothing but the current path G is the cost from the start to the current node threshold is the current cost limit and goal is the target node. Got it. And here node is equals to path of minus one. So it gets the last node in the current path of the current state. Okay. It is going to get the last node in the current path that is path of minus one. So here F of that is nothing but your this formula is similar to your F of n is equals to G of n plus H of here. Where G of n is the actual path first H of n is the hew stick estimate. Right. X 12 what we are going to do the threshold check. Okay. So how are we going to do the threshold check is if the estimated total cost it is going to exceed the threshold. Right. So we are going to stop the X we are going to stop exploring this path and we are going to return the F cost just a we have seen right from Binsia we were supposed to explore the PTSD but we didn't do that because the F cost estimated total cost was exceeding the threshold value right. So that's why we went back that's what they are telling you estimated total cost exceeds the threshold value. Stop exploring that path and return the F cost. So we return the F cost of Pilsia will see it was 415 right but we updated it to 417. Got it. So next what are we going to do we are going to check if the current node is going to is the goal. Okay. If the current node is the goal we are going to indicate it as a success right and here why are we using this function is so this is it is going to store the smallest F cost that exceeded the threshold. So remember for the are the first node to be explored we have kept the backup value as infinity right the threshold value. So that is user to update the threshold later. So here we have same thing we are doing we are going to keep it as minimum float off infinity later we will X ev update it right. So next what are we going to do we are going to explore the neighbors so in this it is going to iterate over the neighbors of the current node okay if neighbor is not in the path it is what actually it go it is going to do is it is going to prevent the revisiting the nodes that are already in the path. And the path not happened it is going to add the neighbor to the current path and here can you see this is the recursive call okay. So here we are recursively explores deeper with the updated cost and here it is going to propagate the success back up the recursion. Here we are going to do the threshold update. So it keeps track of the smallest f cost this one here we are going to keep track of the smallest. Here we are going to keep track of the smallest f cost that it did that threshold. Here it is pop we are going to do the back track it is going to remove the last node to explore the another path. And here we are going to return the minimum cost. That is minimum f value that exceeded the threshold and this is a function for defining your idea stack here we are going to implement the iterative deepening a star algorithm. The initial threshold right is said to hedge off stat node heuristic value of the stat node. Here the path is going to start from the initial node while true here it is going to repeat until the solution is formed or no path exists. So again this is a recursive call this part okay. So what it is going to do is the initial cost is 0 and the current threshold value. So if the goal is formed it is going to print and return the successful path. If no goal is formed this is one that if no node can be expanded further no solution exist and this is for updating the threshold okay. So threshold is increased to the smallest f cost that exceeds them previous limit. So this is the idea star which we will be calling where we will be the start node and G will be the node okay. If you are having any doubts you can put it in the chat box if not I will go into this webinar. Thank you all.